
								Ghezireh Palace

Best Beloved - 		Jones has just informed me that unless I get my letters off at 2:30 this afternoon they won’t go for three days.  It is now 12:30 and luncheon in half an hour.  So this must be dashed off at a gallop.  Oh my dear! that camel expedition on Monday was the most wonderful thing I ever did.  Of course I was horribly lame for 2 days afterwards, but so were Harry and Doris.  Y[ou] would have adored it, - I’d have given anything to have had you alon[g.]  They weren’t awfully good camels either, so I can imagine the raptur[e] of riding fine ones.  Harry went off the other day on an expedition with some English people one of whom was the Major of a Highland regiment.  Said Major furnished the camels from the coastguard corps and Harry said they were perfectly superb, and much much easier to r[ide] than the ones we had. 

We’ve haunted bazaars and done errands and had some swagger clothes made (for which your uncle insisted on paying; - but we wouldn’t hav[e] had them otherwise), and had visitors and gone to teas, and revelled in street sights, and I’ve seen the Khedive and almost seen Lord Kitchener but not quite, and have met one of the highest-up men in t[he] Army here - Major Watson, or Watson Pasha - whichever you choose to call him, who is aide-de-camp to the Khedive.  He is an enchanting person and if he weren’t already married I should try to get him for Little Sister. 

We are sailing Wednesday so my next letter will be from Naples where we expect to spend two days, going thence to Florence.  No letter from you since 2 weeks ago.  Hope all goes well with you. Endless love from 

								Your Mim
				
							The Mediterranean - 10 April,  ll[l?]
							Dampfer "Prinz Heinrich"

Best Beloved. 	We left Cairo yesterday morning at 9:45 and reached Alexandria at one after a comfortable trip through such lovely scenes I couldn’t bear to take my eyes off the windows for a minute.  We sailed at 2:30 and are due in Naples at 11 A.M. Saturday.  If we are not late and if the day is pleasant (it’s funny I remembered to say that after four months of pleasant days as a matter of course) Harry is going to take Doris - and me if I can get off - to Pompeii.  And Sunday Cousin T. is planning to take us on a marvellous motor trip al[ong] [page 26; hw 41] the coast of Amalfi.  Monday we shall probably proceed upon our way to Florence.  Before leaving Cairo we managed to work in a little more sightseeing.  We saw a mosque - the second largest in the world, and quite beautiful.  It contains two objects of particular interest - a granite column that came there all by itself from Mecca, and a magic stone which when people have violent tummy aches they go and lick until their tongues bleed.  Quite a deep hollow had been licked in it, and the blood stains on the base were very revolting.  We also went to the Tombs of the Caliphs which form a sort of Stately City of the Dead with superb domes and exquisite minarets, on which the outskirts of the City proper and close to the desert.  Doris and I would have given our eyeteeth for one untrammeled week in Cairo.  There are such wonderful things to see and do there and we missed so many of them through no fault of ours. 

I do so hope to find a letter from you in Naples forwarded from Paris.  It seems very long since I heard. 
					Your loving, loving Mim.
					
						Grande Bretagne
       					Florence
						18 April, 1913