

Best Beloved - 		Since my last letter I’ve been so unhappy I just couldn’t bring myself to write.  It is nothing that has happened to any of this party, and it’s nothing that I feel like writing about; though I’ll tell you the whole story when I get home.  O blessed word - Home!  But the thing has been so constantly in my mind that I’ve not been able to enjoy anything. 

I dined with Mrs. Bonbright the other evening at Claridges.  She and Mr. B. live over here most of the time now, and have a place in the country.  They were staying in town for a few days preparatory to sailing for America (which they did on Saturday) for Howard’s wedding!  He is marrying a Detroit girl named Elizabeth Hodges, and if she is as lovely as her picture she must be a Queen indeed.  We are invited to tea on Wednesday to meet Norman Sturgis and his wife! - or rather [page 29; hw 44] they are asked to meet us.  The Luckrafts are in town and being awfully nice to us, and so is Lily Solly.  Mrs. Bell is still in America.  We’ve done a lot of motoring through this lovely English country.  It’s a heavenly time of year to be here, but the weather has been horrid.  We motored to Oxford yesterday and on our way back stopped at Stoke Poges, where Wm. Penn was born, and saw the exquis[ite] and very cheerful churchyard where Grey wrote his Elegy.  We also came through Eton and saw scores of Eton boys in their silk hats.  Their ends didn’t correspond - for almost all of them wore slovenly unpolished shoes. 

D. and I have been to three picture galleries and have seen such hauntingly lovely things that if it weren’t for my darling son and [my] hankering to see him, I’d like to stay here another month just to look at pictures.  I must have told you - though I can’t remember - that D and I are going to the York-hall, as I suppose the MacSherry[s] are still at 615, and I hope they’ll stay there all summer. 

I’ll probably write you one more little note before we sail.  Don’t forget date and steamer - May 21, Kronprinz Wilhelm.  We ought to l[and] on the 28th.  Of course I don’t know whether or not you were planni[ng] to meet us, or would be able to.  But I’m going to say "Don’t".  Every extra person only adds to poor Cousin T’s confusion of mind, [so?] we’ll take the first train we can for New Haven.  I’ll telegraph yo[u] the minute we land. 

I’ve had so much to trouble me recently, and I feel so piffliss, I don’t want any flaw in my homecoming.  So if you love your Mim you’[ll] be sure to have done the things I’ve made a point of your doing (ca[ll]ing on the Bakers, and writing those letters) before I get there. 

Goodnight and a million blessings on your dear head.  My love to Jack and to Wilson. 
						Your loving Mother.

								May 16, 1913
						
Best Beloved- 	I learn that the MacSherrys have left 615 Orange.  So Doris and I can go there instead of to the York Hall.  I also learn that the Kronprinz Wilhelm ought to reach N.Y. the morning of Tuesday May 27.  Hurrah!!
						      Best Love
							     Your Mother. 

							Tuesday, 24 June
							On the train from Newport
							to New Haven.
Best Beloved -	
		I’m on my way home again, and this, I think, ends Newp[ort] for me till autumn.  I think I never felt much lonelier in my life than Saturday night with the feeling that every minute was taking [you] farther away from me.  And I know you felt with me the added woe of the loss of the game.  Fate certainly rubbed it into us this ti[me.]  It was hard to leave Cousin Theodore - he so hated to see me go. [He] [page 30] offered me the gardener’s cottage for the summer!  Even the presence of Cecile who arrived last evening with Terry, did not seem to console him for my departure.  H [sic: He] looked so shocking this morning it sent my heart into my mouth.

I’m afraid it’s going to be horribly hot in New Haven, but with escape before me I suppose I can stand it.  I’m longing for your first letter.  Please give my regards to Mrs. Morris and tell her how much I appreciate her hospitality to you. 
					God bless my boy.
							Your loving
							        Mim.

						615 Orange Street
						New Haven 
						30 June, 1913