

Oh Gopher, I don’t know what I would not have given to have had you here today to go with us on our expedition to the Great Dam.  It surely must be one of the Wonders of the World - and what a feat of engineering!  We left Luxor Saturday the 1st and got here yesterday the 4th - 133 miles Baedeker says.  Awfully slow going, - but then we stopped twice, the first time at Edfu that Doris and I might see the temple there; and the second time at Kom Ombo for us to inspect that temple, and also because the wind was blowing so terrifically that navigation was excessively unpleasant, - so we tied up there at about one on Monday and didn’t start again until early the next (yesterday) morning.  Although we were within two minutes walk of the temple D. and I did not stir off the boat until five o’clock when the wind died down.  That Kom Ombo temple is an extraordinary one because it is duplex - one side being dedicated to a good god - the edler Horus, and the other to the bad crocodile god, Sebek or Sobk.  I prefer the later name because it sounds like a crocodile, if said down in your throat with full value given to all the consonants.  There is one room in a little chapel on Sobk’s side which is full ofmummied [sic: of mummied] crocodiles - quite the horridest things I’ve seen in a long while.  The temple is is in a most ruinous condition, but, perhaps, all the more beautiful for that, and the situation and views are superb.  D. and I climbed up on the wreck of a splendid pylon and sat there watching the sunset and indulging in a pleasant melancholy, and had it all to ourselves, except for the faithful escort, Haneen and a sailor, who dogged our feetsteps.  It really is awfully good of the Cousins to bring us up here - for they are tired to death of it, having seen it so many times, and they don’t go anywhere or do anything except stay on the boat and arrange for us to see the sights.  Yesterday morning shortly after we left Kom Ombo we found a mile of flamingoes standing in ranks and files on the sandbars!

We arrived here about 12:30 yesterday and it was a joyful crew that tied us up, for most of them live here.  Doris and I did the bazaar yesterday afternoon with Haneen to drive bargains for us and Amelie and a sailor in our train.  You understand that "the bazaar" in these towns means a long narrow street, or streets, with the roofs nearly meeting overhead and tiny shallow little shops like pigeonholes all along on both sides.  We thought the bazaar in Cairo enthralling, but it falls short of this one though it’s much larger.  This one so reeks of the desert and the strange things that come out of it.  You would have gone wild over the [page 21; hw 36] leopard skins and the Soudanese weapons, and the scores of things you['ve/ have?] never seen anywhere else. 

This morning, immediately after breakfast, D. and I, with Haneen, started for the dam - or the barrage as it’s usually called here.  Jones had engaged a carriage for us at the Cataract Hotel (opposite which we are lying with only a narrow channel between us), and had a luncheon put up for us in the native basket that looks just like the square wicker cages birds are kept in at the bird fanciers.  In less than five minutes from the time we left that very fine hotel courtyard we were in the desert - and a terrible desert, quite unlike the beautiful one at Luxor.  Ruined habitations and ruined cemeteries lay along much of the three miles we drove, and it wouldn’t have surprised me i[n] the least, though I would have been white with fear, to have seen lio[ns] stalking about in those desperate solitudes.  And then suddenly we were in the midst of an enchanting little cantonment of pretty bungalows, beautiful trees and gardens and verdant terraces, - the settlement in which live the officials and chief employees who manage the barrage.  My wildest imaginings fell far short of the stunning and bewildering reality.  Doris and I elected to walk across the barrage though most people ride on little individual skeleton cars, each one pushed by a native along a track (there are two tracks).  It is a mile and a quarter long, and there are 180 sluice gates.  On the upper side the Nile lies like a calm lake within ten feet of the top of the masonry; while on the lower side, at least a hundred feet below and about in the middle of the dam this morning where several adjoining sluices we[re] open there was a thunder and turmoil of the waters and foam almost like Niagara Falls.  At the far end of the barrage we took a felucca and sailed over to Philai, once the Island called "the Pearl of Egypt," b[ut] now so drowned by the banking up of the waters, that only the very top of the palm trees show above the water which laps the capitals of the pillars of the temple.  When we got back to the barrage we walked down four or five flights of steps along the locks and found another feluc[ca] awaiting us, which Jones had sent up, and in that we came down the ri[ver.]  We had hoped to sail, but there was such a contrary wind the men rowed the way. 

There are a few more sights to be seen tomorrow, and on Friday we sta[rt] on our return trip.  The air is splended here, but the wind blows too much for my complete happiness. 

Goodbye, darling.  God bless you and keep you safe.  I do so hope you will go to church on Easter. 
							   Your Loving Mother.

							Thursday, March 13, 1913