


Best Beloved -		Your letter of Jan. 29 came on Wednesday.  Jus[t] three weeks after you wrote it.  I certainly am very far away, and I sometimes get frightfully homesick for you.  I am still more or less crippled form rheumatism, and it will be two weeks tomorrow since I [had the] pleasure of riding my donkey.  It makes me chafe to think of how muc[h] I might have seen in that time, and now our days here are numbered, as we start for Aswan a week from tomorrow.  I do hope the Romeyns will get here before then, - or we may see them farther up the river.  Last Monday I left the boat for the first time in eight days and the[n] only to go across the river to see if electricity would do my aching leg any good.  Tuesday I went again for the same purpose and on my r[eturn] found Newton Byers sitting on deck talking to the Sister-Kitty!  I w[as] much more glad to see him than I’ve been before, and Wednesday afternoon I went over to the steamer Rameses III and called on his mother and sister.  His mother is just a nice, plain mother, but his sister struck me as something quite lovely and fine and rare, which opinion is cordially seconded by the carping and critical D. Newberry.
[page 18; hw 33]
Just as I was leaving the boat, after calling, I had the thrill of seeing no less a person than Rudyard Kipling, who was a fellow passenger of the Byers family.  Doris dined with the Byers that evening and went out to Karnak with them to see those matchless ruins by moonlight.  The Byers said D. was a perfect godsend, because until that evening their son and brother had not laughed since he left America.  He told me he didn’t want to come at all - that his family had dragged him. 

Yesterday I went over to lunch at the Luxor Hotel with the Contessa di Contardone di Villa Marina.  You don’t have to call her all that - just Countess or Contessa.  She is an Englishwoman who made the mistake of her life in marrying an Italian, now haply dead, leaving her a widow for the second time.  Her first husband was an Irishman named Jameson, who died while on an expedition into Central Africa with Stanley; and to hear her tell the story was a rare experience.  She is a sister of Sir Mortimer Durand who was ambassador from England to Washington some time ago.  She seems to like Doris and me as much as we do her, - though Heaven knows she can’t find us a hundredth part as interesting as we do her. 

					++++++++++

This is an extract form your grandmother’s last letter.  If you stopped to think for one minute how such a breaches of ordinary good manners mortify me (actually to the point of suffering) I’m sure you would not again neglect to acknowledge a present or answer an invitation.  Please write now to both Mother and Mabel.  The latter’s address is 

			Mrs. H. W. Buttolph
			   404 E. 12th St.
			      Indianapolis	and apologize as well as you can.    Goodbye, dearest love.  I enclose a picture of the Beduin in its gala dress of flags on Lincoln’s birthday. 
							Your loving 
							       Mim

							Luxor - 27 Feb. 1913