

Darling Gopher -   Doris and I went ashore at Asyut, under the escort of Hareem to take a drive through the city.  The beduin could not get close to the shore so we were landed in the felucca with six Nubians rowing it with a man-of-war’s-men precision.  We landed at the foot of [a?] steep, high bank done in rough masonry, and before I had time to wonde[r] how on earth I was to climb  it I found myself at the top.  A trusty mariner at each elbow had wafted me thither.  There’s never the sligh[test] fuss, - a nod, a single word from the person in command and the thing [is] done as if by magic.  It was the same when we returned from our Asyut spree.  The Beduin and the felucca had moved up the steam to a spot [where] even the felucca couldn’t make a landing.  A word form Hareem [and] D. and I were picked up deftly, carried through the water and set down gently into the boat.    		 It was market day in Asyut and the entire population was apparently in the streets.  We drove through the bazaar and [the?] market where men, women, children, bulls, camels, donkeys were in one grand mass.  It is a large, important, rich town, with many elaborate houses belonging to natives, and during our entire drive we saw not [a] single white person.

In spite of the delights in store for us I hate to have this heavenly voyage end.  To all the enchantments of the shores have lately been added the most wonderful flocks of birds.  The Sister-Kittie announced yesterday when we joined her on deck that a flight of at least a thousand cranes had passed overhead, and not all our efforts could ma[ke] [page 8] her come down one crane.  I myself counted sixty-two pelicans sitting on a sandbar.  And today we sailed by close to Kasz-es-Sayad ("the Hunter’s Castle"), and what easily might be a castle is nothing more nor less that [sic; than] a colossal pigeon-house.  Hundreds of thousands of pigeons were perching on the battlements or flying about them, and little flocks were hastening home to them from all directions.  They are bred in this land as much for their droppings, which make a much-prized fertilizer, as for food.  (That’s a horrid sounding sentence but you will understand what I mean).  On the West bank of the river, opposite the Hunter’s Castle, is the little town of Hou where for 53 years Shieck Selim sat stark naked on the bank of the Nile.  He died a few years ago, and they built a tomb on his sitting place to which the natives make pilgrimages.  Clothes seem rather lightly esteemed in Egypt.  If the day is warm the Shaduf workers wear practically the same garb as the Apache Indian, and their beautiful bodies look like bronze.  We were passing quite close to the shore when a gentleman bounded down the banks, yanked off his one and only garment and proceeded to do is [sic; his] laundry work in the Nile. 

Sunday - 22nd December.  The Beduin, Luxor. 		At noon yesterday - and a day soaked in sunshine - we came in the sight of Luxor, and a short time thereafter had reached its outskirts, and from the window of a dahabya tied to the east bank the pleasant, tousled head of Nicole, an English artist, bowed and called greetings to Cousin Theodore.  Past some charming looking hotels we slipped, catching glimpses in between of the most beautiful columns of the Temple of Luxor, past the Winter Palace Hotel, and then diagonally across the rive [sic: river] to our mooring place on the west shore.  We have it all to ourselves at present, the other boats preferring to be in the thick of everythin [sic: everything] on the east bank.  But we have a beautiful sandy beach on which the crew have pitched their tent, and where we instantly established the poultry yard.  The three coops were taken from the dahabya put on the sand and opened.  Sir Francis Drake and his three ladies waddled madly for the bank, slid down it on their tails and launched themselves joyously upon the water.  The White Cock stepped daintily forth, lonely but still gallant.  All his wives were eaten on the way up.  But seldom are widowers so soon consoled - by 9 a.m. today he had three more.  The turkey cock and his consort emerged from their coop so stiff they could hardly stand up.  But they were soon limbered, and the gobbler strutted and rustled and gobbled as though he owned the earth.

But Oh my dear! if you could see what lies beyond our beach!  A great plain with stretches of sand and stretches of lovely green, and clumps of trees, and then the fierce and glaring and beautiful Lybian mountains making a mighty wall beyond.  I cannot give you any idea of how wonderful it is.  I could have spent the whole afternoon looking, but I suddenly went wild with neuralgia in my face and took to my bed and suffered torments for hours, and then - as suddenly - the pain left and I slept all night, and got up this morning ready for anything.  I wanted to go to church this a.m. but Cousin Emma objected as my face was still swollen and she said the church was always cold. 

This afternoon when Cousin Theodore had had his nap, he, Doris, I and Jones, all in our riding clothes, were rowed across the river in the felucca.  Our donkeys were awaiting us in front of the Winter Palace, the donkey boys (old retainers) kissed our hands and off we started for Karknak.  We could only take a most cursory look at thos [sic: those] stupendous ruins - actually inconceivable until you stand in their presence.
[page 9; hw 24] 
It was lovely the way lines of dragomans and donkey boys along the road would rise to their feet beaming and shouting welcomes to Cousin T.

We got quite a lot of letters yesterday, but my dearest one was from you,-the one of Dec. 1, telling about the Harvard game, and your Thanksgiving, and the chillblains - poor darling - they do hurt so dreadfully.  I suppose you are in Cleveland tonight, or will be shortly.  I love to [?] of you with those dear people since I may not have you myself.  And I fancy that Arthur’s death will prevent the excess of gaiety you were dreading. 

They open the big dam at Assouan tomorrow, and the Khedive passed throu[gh] Luxor today on his way there, but the only indication of him that we sa[w] was the many flags with which Luxor is decorated.  I suppose Lord Kitch[ener?] went through too.  I’d rather see Lord K. than any man alive. 

Goodnight dear love - God bless my boy and grant him a Happy, Happy New Year.
									Your loving
										Mim

					Christmas Night
					   Luxor, 1912