

Darling Gopher -	It’s more than two weeks since I’ve heard from you and I’m beginning to be afraid that a letter must have been lost.  As for me I’ve written you with the utmost regularity, beginning with a postal from Gib, followed by a letter mailed the minute I arrived in Naples on the 27th, pursued by another mailed at Alexandria Dec. 2, since which I’ve written once a week.  A letter just arrived from Jack Stewart and written on Christmas day says "I suppose Roger has written you of his visit to Savannah with Bill Hunter".  Of course I am wholly mystified. Unless a letter comes from you soon, my feeling of remoteness will begin to be intolerable. 

Things go on happening here with the most delightful frequency and the days flit by on the wings of the wind.  I bask in constant sunlight, and wear summer clothes, and am beginning to look so young that Cousin Theodore persistently refers to me, when speaking to Doris, as "Your sister".  Our most recent excitement is a note arrived from Harry Burton this morning before breakfast saying that he had found (in a new sepulchral chamber he opened a few days ago) a red granite sarcophagus with a recumbent figure carved on the lid.  The note further said it would take about two days to clear away the debris in which it is embedded.  Cousin Theodore, Doris and Jones are going to ride over to the valley tomorrow afternoon and spend the night, and await developments.  I want to go also, but it isn’t fair to leave Cousin Emma alone so I’m going to stay with her.  I think I shall ride part way with them for the sake of the ride, and then come back alone with Mahmoud, my donkey boy - and possibly one of the crew.  When Cousin T., D. & I go out we are quite a cavalcade - we three mounted, and three donkey boys and two sailors running beside us.  I’ve come to the reluctant conclusion that my donkey, Sugar, has too small a tummy to clinch a sidesaddle to.  My saddle is continually turning and I have to dismount and hold up the procession and have it readjusted.  Jones thought it might be the fault of the saddle, and, in his determination to have me suited, the other day he, assisted by two donkey boys and six of the crew, saddled and unsaddled that one small donkey with various sidesaddles while all Luxor looked on.  But no sidesaddle stays put for more than fifteen minutes on Sugar, so I think I’ll have to give him up.  I hate to,- he’s so pretty and cunning and makes me think of Kim. 

Sunday afternoon we took a rather unusual ride, not visiting any ruins (which is what we almost always do) but riding through miles of cultivated fields where steam ployghs [sic: ploughs] were at work and the water flowing through cemented irrigating ditches,- all more modern and progressive than anything we have seen, and quite dull and uninteresting compared with the native methods.
[page 13; hw 28] 
Tuesday night Doris and I made our first plunge into Luxor society.  There are some perfectly charming Americans, Mr. and Mrs. Garret Pier, staying at the Winter Palace, and they invited D. & me to dine and stay for the regular Tuesday evening dance.  It was such a fascinating way to go to dinner, - to step into an immaculate felucca and go skim[ming] down the starlit river with six white durbans bowing rhythmically bef[ore] us as the men bent to their oars; then to be escorted by two of our c[rew?] bearing lanterns, up to the entrance of the hotel, and to find them standing like statues awaiting us when we left the hotel at eleven.  Doris met some awfully amusing young Englishmen, two or three of whom could actually dance well, and I enjoyed myself immensely just talkin[g] to people. 

We’ve just had a Baron and Baroness Von Bissing lunching with us.  He is a sort of German translation of Leonard Bacon.  The resemblance is too amusing.  We see by the Paris Herald that George Bourne has been married.  I wonder if he will come out here on his wedding journey. 

You will now be able to tell me something of Mrs. Moses.  I’ve writte[n] twice without getting  an answer to either missive.  I cannot understand it.  Please be sure to send me her new address, though I should think Savannah, Georgia would reach her.  And have you been to see Kim?  Please go!  I can’t bear to have him forget his family.  Dr. Nolte is the name, and you can find the address in the telephone book. 

Endless love from us both and please write to your adoring
							Mim.
I hope you wrote to your grandmother at Christmas time.  If you have[n’t] done so, do it now for my sake.  She wrote me she sent you a couple books. 

							West Bank at Luxor
							23 January, 1913