

Darling Gopher -		The day we got to Naples was simply heavenly. I posted you a letter from there the minute I reached the Hotel.  Also I posted 23 other letters and notes that I’d written on the steamer.  As we were driving from the steamer to our hostelry, the Grand Hotel, Doris and I grinning with delight over everything we saw, our carriage was held up by what at first seemed to be two leaping, shouting brigands who turned out to be Harry Burton and Jim Whittaker.  I think I told you on my post card from Naples that Jim came all the way from Florence to meet us.  And Giulio Tedeschi sent word that he would have given his sou[l] to come also, but couldn’t leave his sick mother.  We had a perfect time that first day - it was so beautiful, and I’m wondering why I hated Naples so that long ago time when I was a girl. 

After we had seen our quarters at the hotel, we all, except for Connie E., went driving along a wonderful mountain road above the city to Posolippo, with ecstatic views.  In the afternoon while naps were being taken by the Elders, Jim and Doris and I went to the Aquarium, stopping on our way by the seawall to see a lot of fishermen drawing in a seine.  They did it with a rhythmic stamping of the feet and wild shouts and as much enthusiasm as though they did not do it twice every day of their lives.  The Aquarium is wonderful - such extraordinary denizens of the deep, and all from the Mediterranean.  Later in the afternoon we all went to Bertolini’s for tea. First you drive zigzagging up and up a mountainous road.  Then you leave your carriage and walk by means of a tunnel into the heart of the mountain.  There you take a lift and go up for what seems like a mile, whereupon you step out on a verandah that seems like a terrace in the skies, with the city far below, - the bay, with [page 3; hw 18] Vesuvius to the left and Capri, the Beautiful, in the near distance guarding the entrance to the harbor; and, to the right a dull red classic sunset burning behind a sloping row of cypresses and pines.  It was so beautiful it was hard to believe it true.  The next day was hor[rible/rid?] weather and the only thing of interest that we did was the museum, to which Jim and Doris and I went in the morning.  But there is never-failing amusement from the windows of the Grand, which is close to the water, with a constant drilling of soldiers in the street by day, and minstrelsy by night. 

We boarded this steamer at about 10:30 Friday A.M. in the midst of the wildest confusion (I fancy it’s always that way in this voluble and excitable land).  Jim came down to say goodbye and then betook himself to his train.  We were to have sailed at 12 but were two hours late because of a gruesome accident.  They were lowering a huge bale of sacks of potatoes into the hold when it escaped a guiding hand and smashed a poor man to death against the side of the steamer.

As we sailed out past Capri and the coast of Italy unfolded "where the waves and mountains meet", it was a sight of breathless beauty.  We were, unfortunately, asleep when we passed through the Straits of Mess[ina.]  Today we have had a dim, dim glimpse of Crete, and it’s getting deliciously warm.  We are due in Alexandria about noon tomorrow, and should be in Cairo in time for dinner.  Harry Burton is too amusing for words.  He is a most delightful addition to our party.  I only wish he were going to live on the dahabeah instead of up in the Valley.  All blessi[ings] on you dear head.  I think you ought to give something to some poor person for Christmas; - a turkey sent to Mrs. Tornberg, 90 Wolcott St. would be a charity indeed and could be ordered before you leave for Cleveland. 

I thought of you at Pomfret Thanksgiving Day.  It was hard to realize in Naples, (with nothing at all to mark the day except the many, many things we have to be thankful for), that in our native land, Turkey and Cranberry were reigning supreme. 

I meant to stop this letter on the last sheet with my benediction. N[ow] I must, in order to write to your grandmother. 
							Your loving, loving
									Mim.
Please write to your grandmother at Christmas time. It’s possible sh[e] may be in Indianapolis at the time, but "Gambier, Ohio" will always reach her. 

					The Egyptian Hotels Ltd Cairo
					Shepheard’s Hotel & Ghezireh Palace
					5 December, 1912