

Darling Gopher -	We are now wondering whether Edith was allowed to return to New Haven for the Prom proper.  In a letter Doris had from Dick he said he had met you on the street and you had told him of your hopes and fears (though he didn’t put it that way.)  I have a feeling that she did come back.  I fancy Mrs. Finch likes now and then to make a bluff at being very strict and keep people in suspense.  I shall await your description of the Prom with interest - and such patience as I can summon to my aid.  It’s two weeks since I’ve had a letter from you.  I was rejoiced yesterday by one from Golden from Mrs. Moses, which [page 15; hw 30] combined the advantages of a long-desired missive from a friend and a puzzle.  She writes one of the most indecipherable hands I’ve ever encountered.  It seems Put had a very serious accident in football and [for] a time was in a dangerous condition.  That was what first took her out there.  Then she staid for Christmas, and now she is staying on through February just because she likes it. 

Nothing particularly thrilling has happened since my last letter.  The chief destination of our rides for the past week has been our new digg[ing] at Medinet Habu which is much nearer than the old diggings at the Tombs of the Kings.  Doris and I rode over there yesterday afternoon to cheer Harry up a bit.  He occasionally gets tired of not seeing a white pers[on] to speak to for days at a time.  I sat on a block of stone that had on[ce] been part of a temple pillar, and Doris wandered about picking up chun[ks] of carnelian, and my donkey boy took his clothes off - just why I cann[ot] say.  Fortunately he put them on again.  On leaving Harry to his diggi[ng] we rode up into a hollow in the Libyan Hills to see a temple we had not yet visited - a gem of a temple, called Der-el-Medineh.  The view alon[e] off towards the Nile though a wide cleft in the rocks was worth going far to see.  And the superb looking Arab, guardian of the place, was so moved by my present of seven cents that he knocked Mahmoud, my donkey b[oy,] out of the way and held my donkey himself while I mounted.  On our homeward way Doris left me on a mad gallop to catch up to a baby camel she saw in the distance.  The maternal camel was not pleased by this attenion and tried to take a bite out of Doris, but, happily, failed. 

I’ve been twice out to luncheon this week - once with the Fahnestocks on their Dahabya "Cheops", and once at the Winter Palace with the Piers.  The Piers are enchanting people and so nice to us.  They had Doris over for dinner and the dance again Tuesday night.  It is such a pleasure to her and I’m so thankful she can have it.  The incessant cardplaying is rather hard on her.  I tru [sic: try] to help out by playing dominoes as much as I can; but Cousin T. so much prefers bridge. 

Give my special love to Jack and tell him I live in hopes of finding t[ime] to answer his letter as it deserves.  My love to Wilson Foss.  And, dearest, to please me, bo [sic: go] and call on Mrs. Baker.  It isn’t decent not to when she has been so kind about asking you there. 

I made a mistake in saying it had been two weeks since I had a letter from you.  It’s only a little over one.  God bless my boy.  I have tim[?] of being very homesick for you.
								Your loving
								       Mim.

									Luxor
									8 February, 1913