
							Speeding down the Nile

Best Beloved - 		At last we are on our homeward say.  Of course it is going to take us two months and a half to get there, but four months have gone.  We left Aswan early Friday morning and reached Lux[or] too late Sunday A.M. for D. and me to go to church.  We had expected to come down flying, having the current in our favor, as well as th[e] tug, but mad winds and many sandbars interrupted our progress.  Not that D and I minded - it was interesting to watch the crew getting us off sandbars.  We spent the rest of Sunday, and all of Monday and Tues[day] at Luxor, tied up as nearly as possible in our old place, and wit[h] nothing very exciting doing.  Doris paid one final visit to Karnak [page 22; hw 37] Sunday afternoon, and on Monday she and Cousin Theodore took their last ride on Julius Ceasar and Hermes, - while I had to do the society act for the family, going out to say goodbye to the teachers at the American mission school, and then taking a farewell tea with the Contessa.  That last was quite unnecessary because  she left Luxor just as we did, yesterday and we are all to meet in Cairo.  But the poor lady has been ill in bed and was lonely - and I always like to see her.  Tuesday Doris and Cousin Emma went over to Luxor early in the morning and I played dominoes.  Harry came over from the Valley and spent most of the day.  The diggings have stopped (this is the season for stopping them) and Harry will join us in Cairo, going down by train in about ten days when he has done the final settling up of everything in the Valley.  Mr. Edgar, Inspector of Excavations in Upper Egypt, says that our discoveries are the only important ones made this winter at Thebes. 

Lancelot Crane came to tea that afternoon and he and Harry and D and I can always amuse ourselves vastly talking to each other.  Some ladies Cousin Emma knew also came.  And presently Crane and Harry mounted their donkeys and with a wave of their hats turned towards the valley.

We left Luxor shortly after eleven, I think, yesterday morning and it was gectic [sic: hectic] getting off.  The sands were dotted with natives who had come to say goodbye, and get a parting backshish, and on the Luxor side, as we passed, tradesmen whom we had patronized, and many friends of the crew waved frantically at us.  We have come skimming down thus far - and oh these lovely banks!  They are covered with poppies now in long stretches.  We got to Dendereh yesterday afternoon about five and stopped for Doris and me to see that temple.  Jones said it was a very little walk.  "A little walk" in this family means not more than a ten-minute one, so we started on foot.  But it had been some years since Jones had done it and he had forgotten.  It was almost, if not quite, two miles there, which wouldn’t have mattered in the least if it hadn’t been so late.  Two sailors were sent with us, and we walked as fast as we could, but we only go there in time to see the sunset from the roof- which alone was worth the expedition, and then fairly tore through the dim recesses of the temple and down into the most amazing crypt.  It was so spooky there that it was comforting to think that the Gaffir - having seen our athletic guardians at the gates of the temple - would not dare to murder us as he so easily might.  It was a wonderful walk back - quite recompensing us for the calling down that awaited us.  The relatives had grown frightened about our being out after dark, and were cross in consequence.  Of course it was Jones who out to have been called dow [sic: down] - but considering all Jones does for us I’d always rather take a scolding than have him get one.  We started out with an escort of two sailors, and we came back with four sailors (two more having been sent out to meet us) two native men who had attached themselves to the party, two children and two goats. 

Your letter, undated, but postmarked Feb. 21 arrived before we left Luxor.  I am so glad to hear Crossen Hays has come out so well from that dreadful catastrophe.  I wish I knew where you were to spend the [page 23; hw 38] Easter Holidays, and I wish - more than I have words to tell, that you were going to spend them with me.  Please let me know as soon as you have any definite idea of what you are going to do in the summer. 

I must write and ask MacShurry if he means to keep the apartment on till fall, for if he does, Doris and I will have to go to the York hall or some such place during the three weeks of June that we shall spend in New Haven. 

Once more Roger dear I want to beg you to go see Kim some Sunday.  I love that little dog almost as if he were human, and I really can['t] bear to think that a member of his own family is in the same town a[ll] these months without ever going to see him.  Dr. Nolte is the name [and] you can find the address in the telephone book. 

More love than could be written and God bless my boy. 
						Your loving
				    		    Mother

						Cairo - Saturday - 23 Mch 1913