

Best Beloved - 		We are feeling so terribly over the news of Charlotte Walcott’s death which we just heard yesterday.  I have that most desperate of all feelings - the belief that somehow it might have been prevented.  This is no reflection on his father, who could not drop everything and go with him to California.  But if he had had a mother or his sister to go with him we [sic: he] would not have been subjected for so long to what Mr. Walcott himself wrote me was "the wrong treatment."  The one ray of comfort in the whole tragedy is that he is now with his mother. 

I got your letter of Zarch [sic: March] 20th the other day in Naples, just after I had posted mine to you.  And your April 1st one reached me here yesterday.  We had to waste one day in Naples as it rained so torrentially, and practically the sole fruit of our stay there was that Doris saw Pompeii - which was one of her heart’s desires.  I would have liked to see it too, for in the 30 years which have elapsed since I was there much has been excavated.  But it wasn’t possible for us both to do it, and I was crazy to have D. go. 	We got here Tuesday night, having left Naples at 9:45 that morning, with Vesuvius covered a third of the way down from its summit with snow.  The cold and the rain here in Italy have been hard to bear after the sunlight and warmth of Egypt.  But it is such an entrancing trip here from Naples - such verdant count[ry?,] such beautiful vineyards, such a riot of flowers, the mountains and hills so splended and so romantic with the feudal towns crowning the summits of the foothills and long, long roads leading up to them.  On the enclosed card I’ve marked about where our sitting room windows are, and the bridge you see is the far famed Ponte Vecchio, lined on both sides with the most enthralling shops.  Near the bridge this side of the Ponte Vecchio, and which just misses getting into the picture, someone was committing suicide as we drove up to the hotel the night of our arrival. 
[page 27; hw 42]
Cousin T. has chartered a motor car and it’s on tap all day.  He loves to take long drives, and he has already taken us on some marvellous ones.  The mountain roads about here are something wonderful.  In between times we dash to picture galleries and churches, and hau[?] little shops under the guidance of Harry Burton who is a perfect trump.  Cousin Emma’s nieces (who are my cousins) Nettie and Mary Buttles, who live here in Florence, are like the motor car - always on tap.  And they are so delightful, that the critical D pronounces them "the nicest cousins she has ever seen."  Elsie Olyphant is here looking fine, and she and D. have had one afternoon together already.  The Beebes will be in town in a day or two.  It is an absolutely fascinating place, with such a bewildering number of things to do a[nd] see one would have to spend many winters here to do it justice. 

In one of your letters you say "owing to the fact that my clothes supply was very limited."  If you haven’t clothes enough you must g[et] enough.  It seems to me that you ought to be able to buy them out of your allowance but if you are not I’ll pay for them gladly.  I’m so delighted that you were going to see Kim.  And Gopher dearest, have you written to your grandmother and Aunt Mabel?  I can hardly belie[ve] that after all I said about it you have still neglected it, but I’m a little nervous because Grandmother has not mentioned hearing from [you.]  I beg that you will do it without any further delay, if by any chan[ce] it is still undone.  Don’t think it is a small matter.  It is not t[oo] small in itself to be important.  And because I ask you to do it ou[ght] to be - to you - an impelling reason.  Your Aunt’s address is:

I’m delighted you had such a nice time with Andrew, and I’m fonder [than] ever of him just because he was good to you.  Your enthusiasm over James Kemp makes me think he must have improved very much since I k[new] him thirty years ago - which, of course, is time enough for anyone to improve. 

Now I must bid you goodnight with a tight hug.
						Your loving 
							Mother

						May 2, 1913