

Darling Gopher -  I don’t know what I wouldn’t give if you were her[e,] you’d love it so, and you wouldn’t have the patience to read a quar[ter] of it if I should even try to give you a description.  I mailed you [a?] letter form Naples and another from Anexandria [sic; Alexandria], so this makes my th[ird.]
[page 4]
Entering Alexandria was one of the most beautiful things I ever did,- and the scenes on the wharf - the strange tribes and peoples, the wonderful colors, the turbans, the fezes, the Turkish trousers and gold embroidery, the superb figures of the Arabs in their long straight robes, the vociferations and gesticulations, - it was all a mad and wholly delightful confusion.  None of us ever have to look after a single piece of our forty-something pieces of luggage, except one small black bag with Cousin Emma’s jewels.  Jones and Amelie look after everything, and we simply sail along empty-handed and take possession of comfortable train-compartments reserved in large red letters for "Davis Pasha".  Cousin Theodore has been coming to this hotel for 20 years so we are a sort of Royal Party here and are the recipients of more salaaming and devotion that anything less than Royalty often gets.  It was late Monday evening when we reached here, and we vanished at once in[to] the gorgeous suite reserved for us.  But the next morning as we were standing on the terrace waiting for our motor car, and watching monkeys and cobras and mongooses performing on the sidewalk, who should fall upon us from the rear but Mrs. Tonzalin and Charlotte. 

We have been to the museum and have seen the wonderful Theodore M. Davis Room with all its marvels and beauties, and have been presented (Doris and I) to Sir Gaston Maspero who presented us with the freedom of the Museum, and gave us each a grey and gold permit "de visiter tous les monuments, fermes ou enclos de la Haute-Egypte."  We have visited our dahabeah, the Beduin, twice and are wild about it.  Once, when the Elders were napping, Harry Burton, D. & I paid a delirious visit to the native bazaars and saw more queer things in an hour than in all our live[s] put together before.  We have been to the Pyramids!!! (Haven’t seen the Sphynx as yet.)  We have motored out and out into the desert until the whole world seemed made of grey and shifting sand in desolate sweeps, high ridges and deep hollows.  We’ve been to the Zoo, - one of the nicest ones I ever saw.  We've been to the Citadel, and have entered the wonderful Mosque of Mohammed Ali with sacred yellow slippers as big as barges on our profane tootsies.  But after all it is the strange and crowded and kaleidoscopic street life which is the most enthralling part of Cairo to us so far.  Such startling sights which no one but such as we even turn to look at.  Doris could ride through Cairo on a camel and not begin to attract the attention she does in New Haven on a horse.  A splendid Arab in a long straight robe of heavenly blue strides across a thoroughfare with three dried crocodiles under his arm and 615 Orange St. is the only thing that notices him.  It’s all of it perfectly gorgeous. 

But we hanker to hear from you.  I’ve had a letter from Adeline, one fro[m] Grandmother, and one from Katie from Cooraclare, Ireland; and D. has had missives from Marion and Clara.  Perhaps the next steamer will bring one from you.  I omitted to send a message - a Christmas message for Clara to enclose with my present to you.  But you know - or ought - what oceans and oceans of love go with it. 

God bless my boy and keep him safe.  A Merry Christmas and A Truly Happy New Year.
								Your loving Mother
[page 5; hw 20]
								Shepheard’s Hotel
								Cairo
								9 December, 1912