S.S. Princess Irene. Nov. 9. 1905.     This is the 13th day of our voyage! will reach Naples tomorrow morning at 6 o’clock. I love that early morning entrance into these enchanted waters - to see the first gleam upon the crater and smoke of Vesuvius while all is dark and obscure below. The weather has been bad most of the way, and we are far behind time. The last few days have been fine - I am in the same spacious and luxurious rooms of the Captain that I had last year - and I have enjoyed them even more than I did then - their height and quiet - where through the door open night and day on my own little deck, I seem to possess the heavens and earth, and I have accomplished a lot of planning for the farm and for the garden. We know a few of our fellow-passengers - Admiral and Mrs. Folger, Captain Mahan and family, Mr. and Mrs. Whitehouse of Irvington on the Hudson etc. Captain Dannomeuse is the Prince of Captains - interesting, thoughtful and studious.Brindist - Nov. 12th.     Reached Naples Friday at 6 A.M. had a good landing - though later the rain began, and prevented us from doing anything but stay indoors the rest of the day. We had the same weather the next morning, until noon, when we left for Brindisi, most of our time was spent with David Costantini, who had brought his new wife down to see us. We were quite pleased with her. A well dressed, lady like woman of the world, Page 109evidently very fond of him - but the disparity in years would seem perhaps to make the result unhappy. She was a Miss Ida Sahopek of New York, and then a Mrs. Wilmerding, from which marriage she gets her money. We had the usual tiring ride over here, arriving at 10:30 P.M. This hotel is drearier and dirtier than ever but the Captain of the Isis has take pity on us, and says we may go aboard for luncheon.Shepheards Hotel. Cairo.     Wednesday, November 15, 1905.     Arrived at Port Said this morning at 6 o’clock. Caught the train, luggage and all in time to reach here at 5:30. To our amazement the hotel seems quite full. There is a great rush to Egypt it seems this winter. In our old rooms.Friday, Nov. 24th.     Came on board the Beduin at noon - after a pleasant, busy week at Cairo. Mr. and Mrs. Dennis of Baltimore are here. He is to work at Der el Bahri this year. Saw Mr. Somers-Clarke who dined with us; Mr. Breasted, who with his wife are en route to the Sudan to copy inscriptions. Saw much of Mr. Carter - who has at last resigned from the Service des Antiquitès. I was very glad to hear it. Jean and I drove out to the country to the pretty little house he has taken, and had tea with him. He is going to devote himself to painting - a thing he should have done years ago. One of the most interesting men I have  [not able to discern what was written.]    Page 110 He (L.H.) invited us to make him a visit at his farm, away up at the mouth of the Atbara river! How we would have liked it! He was taking up with him Mr. and Mrs. Idding, our new Vice-Consul. Mr. Morgan gave us a tea, where we met the Iddings. I had met him years ago at Rome, one evening when Mrs. Bronson gave us a dinner in her beautiful appartment in the Palazzo Borghese. He tells me that Ethel still occupies it. She is now Princopessa Ethel Rospigliosi - having married Prince Giovanni Battista Rospigliosi - a sensible marriage de convenance Mr. Iddings said - who has known the Bronsons intimately for years. Ethel gave her money, was received into the Catholic Church - and got his title, and was received in his family where she had long been, she and her mother, on intimate terms. We got off with a tug about 2 o’clock, which we will take as far as Asyût - Theodore being impatient to reach Luxor. Amelie has been the victim of repeated colds since she came to Egypt - and was in bed 2 days with rheumatism before we started. We made 16 miles today. Saturday, Nov. 25.     47 miles. and are 7 miles above Wasta.23 Sunday after Trinity. Nov. 26.     30 miles. Are lying at Fashen - having made 30 miles. Amelie much of the time in bed with cold and repeated attacks of dysentery. Jones half ill with a cold. Page 111Monday, Nov. 27th.     [Unreadable] 	Head wind all day. Passed Mr. Sayce at 8:30 this morning. Tuesday, Nov. 28th.     31 miles.	Stopped at Minia for the mail at 4 o’clock. Mr. and Mrs. Frazer came over to see us - their boat being near us. Wednesday, Nov. 29th.     45 miles. just below the troublesome Gebel Abufeydah - quite warm today. Thursday, November 30th.     43 miles.	A warm day - we dropped our tug on arriving here (Asyût) at 5:30 and will go on without it. 

Silsilis. Feb. 8th, 1906.     It is a far cry back to that day at Asyût. The next day I went to bed with a sudden cold which I had been fighting for 2-3 days - and there I stayed for nearly 4 weeks - more ill than I have ever been in my life, with a severe attack of bronchitis. That was a weary time.Page 112It taught me much. We stayed in Luxor at our usual place at the sand bank opposite the town, for 7 weeks and 4 days. Theo very busy with his work. He unearthed 3-4 tombs. One only having any special interest - that of Siptah, an inimportant king of the XIX dynasty. We had of course visitors all day long - from those at breakfast to lunch - tea and dinner. I spent a great part of my time waiting for people to go! Mr. Agassig (sic Agassiz) and May were in Luxor several days, and we saw much of them, they are delighted with Egypt - with Luxor and its climate - and especially with the dahabya and our mode of life. We got away at last on the 4th and have made on our 3 days - 9 miles - 33-1/2 - 30. It has been very warm and cloudy for 2 days - yesterday a few drops of rain fell - and this evening it is raining sharply - after a short storm of strong wind. Very hot today. We were all quite limp and lazy - yesterday about 11 o’clock we saw away in the distance a dahabya at Silsileh, which we thought must be Mr. Sayce’s. The wind failed however and we couldn’t get on. All this morning we were tracking and pulling to an anchor - the river as smooth as a mirror. Just as we were almost in hailing distance of the Istar, we saw her pull out in the river, and start down. Mr. Sayce came over in his felucca for a few moments. He reports the prehistoric ground he has been examining to have been in time past completely plundered. Just before we tied up for the night, the Scarab overtook us, with Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gould and Mr. Newberry on board. We had hoped to reach Aswân before they did. Rained a little this evening. Page 113Friday, Feb. 9th.     36 miles.	We have made a good day of it - and arrived at the big sycamore under the Grenvill tombs about 6:30. The day has been warm and clouded. Saturday, Feb. 10.     It has been a very hot day - we sailed around to our old place on the rocky little island opposite the Cataract Hotel early this morning. This afternoon we rowed around the Savoy Hotel, and had tea in those charming gardens. Dined at the Cataract Hotel and met Mr. and Mrs. Whitehouse, Mr. and Mrs. Nemness, Dr. Morrell, Mr. Newberry and the Goulds from the Scarab - and glad to find Miss Morgan there. The new handsome big dining room was crowded with people - every one in full dress. Theo and I came away at 11 - leaving Jean and Robert for the dance. Septuagesima Sunday. Feb. 11.     A horrid day of cold wind and rain. I never saw the atmosphere fuller of sand - and it came everywhere into the boat. It rained about 4 hours. The Beduin happily is water tight. Miss Morgan came over to dinner and Mr. Newberry to tea. The Scarab goes down tomorrow. Monday, Feb. 12.     A high cold wind all day - but sunshine and a clear atmospherePage 114Jean and Robert and Miss Morgan went over to the Busharin village this morning - and we went with her to the Savoy this afternoon for tea. The gardens deliciously fresh after the rain. We dined with the Whitehouses at the Cataract, and had a charming evening. Saw the Hennops, Mr. and Mrs. Hall of Boston, and Mr. Talbot Kelley, the artist. We start down tomorrow. Tuesday, Feb. 13.     13 miles.	Started soon after breakfast with the usual contrary wind - but worked our way along to this point, lovely day, with cool wind. I hate to leave these red golden sands, these strange, sombre rocks - and the dry pure air of Aswân - it has a quality quite to itself.Wednesday, Feb. 14.     33 miles.	This has been one of the worst days I ever knew on the river. It began with a high wind and no sun, and soon began to rain - and kept on raining steadily the whole day. It was a miserable day for the men, who worked manfully at their oars, saturated as they must have been - and we are now lying below Silsilis. Passed the Zenet-et-Nil the other side of Silsilis just before dark. Did not see Mr. and Mrs. Bird. Thursday, Feb. 15.     30 miles.	Another bad day, beginning with a thick mist that Page 115has lasted the whole day in spite of a stiff north wind. It has been cold - we are at this time 5:30 - about 6 miles from Edfou, and it is already almost dark. We are floating by the aid of our “sea anchor”. It is strange how few gyassas we see in this part of the river.Friday, Feb. 16. El Kab.     17-1/2 miles. We have had a clear day at last - but a very cold wind from the north, increasing as day wore on. We made the shore opposite El Kab with difficulty. Was much interested in the new house Mr. Somers-Clarke is building about a mile above El Kab. It is on a little spur from the hills, and must have a lovely view. It liked it very much. It fits with dignity and appropriateness into its surroundings. So sorry we could not stop and see it. Saturday, Feb. 17.     34 miles.	Two miles from Gebelen. In spite of head winds we are now within 20 miles of Luxor. The morning was very cold. Mercury 54 in my room - and a cold wind all day. It grew warm about 5 P.M. and now at 10 o’clock there are no stars to be seen and it is warm and close.Sexigesima Sunday. Feb. 18th.     Luxor. 20 miles.	Arrived at 2:30, found a great mail. We have fought the contrary wind all the five and a half days we have been coming from Aswân - on the moment of our arrival the Page 116south wind began to blow. Mr. Newberry came to dine.Luxor. Feb. 19th.     A terrific gale from the S.W. has been blowing all day. In spite of it, Theo and Robert went over to the Valley in clouds of dust. They stopped on the way home at Der el Bahri to see the big Hathor cow discovered there lately. Theo closes his general explorations today - but is going to clear out the tomb of Mentu-her-repshef’s tomb (sic). This tomb was opened by Champollion, but has not been seen since his time, as it has become filled with stone and débris. Theo thought he might find valuable inscriptions. Tuesday, Feb. 20.     Sir Thomas the Lady Acland came to tea - she is an aunt of Robert’s - very nice people. We had Mr. and Mrs. Hennop, Grace Hennop, and Miss Ewart to dine - a pleasant evening - a cold day - and still wind. Wednesday, Feb. 21st.     Over to Luxor this morning to the Hotel, and to the school - find Miss Buchanan is in Cairo - our cold wind still holds. Thursday, Feb. 22nd.     We had the boat dressed with our flags in honour of the day - [not able to read]. Jean and I drove out to see Mrs. Weigall this Page 117morning - met there Baron v. Bissing, who has just arrived - looking remarkably well. Young Mr. Mandsley to dine.Friday, Feb. 23.     We all went over to the Valley this morning and lunched there in Mr. Ayrton’s tent - in company with him and his two funny little dogs. He had many rather interesting fragments to show. In spite of very bad donkeys in my chair, the poor things are always worn out by this time of the year, I enjoyed the ride. The day was very warm - but I got home without feeling a bit tired. The sight of that splendid deep blue sky above those yellow, buttressed cliffs, without a speck of a cloud, and as I gazed into its soft depths burning to a violet purple it was worth seeing. Jean and Robert went over to the hotel to dine.Saturday, Feb. 24.     At home all day - wind strong. Called on Lady Acland at Savoy. Miss Bruce, the Miss Collins - and Mrs Dennis to tea.Quinquagesima Sunday - Feb. 25.     Mr. Corelly came to lunch. Mrs. Hunt and Baron v. Bissing to tea - M. and Mme. Naville and Mr. Sayce to dine. I was very tired and sleepy.Monday, Feb. 26.     Theo and Robert went over to the Valley this morning taking Page 118Mr. and Mrs. Laffan - I lent my chair to Mrs. L. it was a hot day, and I hated to have them go. They stopped on the way home and had tea with the Navilles at the German house. I had a missionary tea this afternoon - Miss Buchanan, Miss Gordon, Miss Atcheson, and Freda. Miss B. and I have had a great chat and a great deal to talk about, as Freda is to be married in April. She makes an excellent marriage - to a teacher in the German school at Aswân, a native, but a Christian, having lived in England - and speaking and writing English very well. Freda improves enormously and was baptized last summer at Khartoum. This man has a house furnished in European style, and bears an excellent character - and we all feel it a happy thing for her. But at the school they feel a little sad over it, as she will be so much missed. the new school building is almost finished - they have occupied for a year the lower floor - but are very crowded thus - it is a big, fine building - very substantial, with thick walls and high ceilings. It must always be cool - all the arrangements are admirable - a pretty chapel, a court, quite a garden - and such nice dormitories. There are now 230 pupils - and when finished, the building will accomodate 100 more. Miss Buchanan has 6 girls, who are to marry this spring - and she has been giving them herself in the evenings a course of training in family life - the care of children, and of the sick etc. I think the work she is doing is about the biggest in Egypt. Each one of her girls as they marry and have homes and children will form a leaven for succeeding generations. Page 119Tuesday, Feb. 27.     Sir Thomas the Lady Acland to lunch - such a pleasant visit. Jean and I went over to the Luxor hotel to tea with those nice Miss Collins - in the garden, and had Scotch cake. Mr. Mandsley and Mr. Ayrton called after we got home. High wind all day. Paid farewell call to the Insingers, and took them some books.Ash-Wednesday, Feb. 28.      We went over to Luxor this morning, Theo to the mission school, Jean and Robert to play tennis with Newberry and Mrs. Dennis, and I to church in the little chapel - Mr. Sayce assisted Mr. Cross. Met Sir Thomas and Lady Acland, the Miss Collins, and Miss Bruce. Jean and I went to tea with Mr. Sayce. Newberry, Mr. and Mrs. Weigall and Mrs. Dennis came after we got home. Mr. and Mrs. Laffan lunched with us. We start for Cairo tomorrow. Our tent is struck - the awnings down, and I for one, glad to get away from Luxor and its people - but not glad to say goodbye to the splendid Theban mountains and desert. We have spent 2 months and 3 days at Luxor.Thursday, March 1st.     40 miles.	We have had a beautiful day - started at 6 o’clock A.M. and rowed until nearly 8 o’clock. We have a beautiful young moon now. I had an early farewell interview with my splendid mountains - touched to every shade of soft pink colour. Page 120Friday, Mar. 2d.     12 miles. North wind all day - we are about 6 miles below Keneh - passed the Birds on Zenet-el-Nil just above Keneh. They were lying by. Saturday, March 3d.     10 miles.	We have been floating all day against an adverse wind - rather warm - Ammon-Ra went down.First Sunday in Lent.     11 miles.	Made an early start at 6 A.M. but were obliged to pull up to a pleasant little low bank early in the afternoon. Passe Dischna at 8 o’clock - having seen it in the distance for hours yesterday. Very warm - Isis went down with tug. Monday, March 5th.     29 miles.	The men began rowing this morning at 6 o’clock - quite calm and warm. Reached Nagh Hamadi at 8 o’clock, and waited for the bridge to open at 9:30. No wind all day and very warm. Arrived at Balliana about 6:30. Jean and Robert wishing to see Abydos tomorrow.Balliana. March 6. Tuesday.     We had a great gale last night - it began to blow about 11 o’clock and I noticed how very black the sky was when I went to bed. Page 121I had just fallen asleep, when I was wakened by the noise, and the running and calling of the sailors and the rattling of chains. I looked out of my window again, and saw that our stern was quite out in the stream - the wind coming from off shore - the boat had dragged the stern anchor - and the men were all busy getting out extra ropes, anchores, etc. Theo got up and lighted his candle, and strayed about the boat, looking out of the windows. It blew all night and grew cold - and was still blowing when J. and R. started for Abydos - Jean in my chair - and a gen d’armes, mounted, to go with them. Abydos, or rather Balliana, and its neighborhood being often turbulent. Theo and I had a nice day alone - and about 4 the rest came home, looking very tired, and much battered and covered with dust - the wind being very strong all day - and the air laden with dust. Wednesday, Mar. 7th.     5 miles.	Although we started early, we were driven to the bank about 10 o’clock - where we are now lying - 3 miles above Girgeh - which can be plainly perceived across the sand. Hard and cold wind all day.Thursday, Mar. 8th.     Naviles. Our men began rowing just as soon as there was light enough, but at 9 o’clock the gale was so strong, we had to pull up here, a mile below Girga - the “Nakt-Heb” french flag, is lying just above us, the “Gazelle” with Sir TaltonPage 122Sykes, just below.Friday, March 9th.	     24 miles.	The men worked with a will all day - though against the wind. We brought up at Sohag, about 6:30 this evening - posted letters and got a lot of fresh butter from Cairo. A wonderful moon tonight - full.Saturday, March 10th.     The wind so strong and contrary this morning we did not start until 8:30 and shortly after brought up against a high bank opposite the town, where we are still lying and will spend the night here.Second Sunday in Lent. March 11th.     25 miles.	Our men began rowing at 4:30 this morning - as the night was very brilliant with a full moon. The north wind has been blowing all the time, sometimes less, but never ceasing. We are now lying against the cliffs of the northernmost end of the Gebel Harêdi - opposite Tahtah.Monday, Mar. 12th.     23 miles. The usual conditions prevailed today, by hard work we made our miles - and are within 4 miles of Aboutig - we suppose.Page 123Tuesday, Mar. 13th.     We must have made 10 miles today and are within 5 miles of Asyût. Cold wind all day - tonight is overclouded and warmer.Wednesday, March 14th.     25 miles.	Made Asyût at 7:30 this morning - stopped only long enough for Jones to get the mail, and Hassoon to get vegetables, meat etc. Got through the Weir very easily - and have had no wind or very little. It has been very warm - we are probably within 6 miles of Manfalout.Thursday, March 15th.     36 miles.	A very warm day - and an absolutely quiet one. The sailors worked valiantly, with an awning over them, from 5:30 A.M. We brought up at Hag Kandil at 6:30. Found the Gazelle lying here. At 6 o’clock this evening the mercury stood at 84 in my room - but a cool refreshing little wind from the south is going now. Friday, March 16th.     We left our landing place this morning early though a north wind was blowing hard - after an hour of struggle with it, we were forced to a big sand bank opposite Gebel Sheik Said - where we now are. The wind has raged all day - it has not been cold - but walking or staying on deck was impossible.Page 124Saturday, March 17th.     We are still lying where we were yesterday - and the weather has been the same. Theo sent one of the sailors this morning 7 miles across the sand to Melawi, to carry a telegram to Cook, ordering a tug to come up to us.We ought to have done this a week ago.Sunday, Mar. 18th. 3d Sunday in Lent.     Rodah. 13 miles. We brought up here suddenly about 11 o’clock this morning, with a strong wind from the east, and here we are still. We hope to meet our tug tomorrow. Indeed we have 2 tugs coming for us - one from Sheik Fadl, ordered this morning, and one from Cooks, Cairo, which started up yesterday - and which we ought to pick up on Tuesday - when we will dismiss the other one.Monday, Mar. 19th.     11 miles.	Beni Hassan. Started very early, but had to tie up about 10 o’clock - opposite the tombs - a spot we well know as we had to stay just here years ago for a week, on our way up - a gale is going on. Tuesday, Mar. 20th.     63 miles. Maghagah. I couldn’t sleep last night because of the “fracas” - the gale made. It rained too. About 8 o’clock we heard the cheerful toot of the tug - and the Thothmes appeared having made fast time from Cairo. Following on her heels came the SugarPage 125Tug from Sheik Fadl - who had to be settled with and sent back before we started. The tug went upon the sand for half an hour but has made her miles against a tremendous wind.Wednesday, Mar. 21st.     84 miles.	The gale has continued without ceasing for a moment, and it is really cold. 8 miles of Bedreshchein.Thursday, Mar. 22d.     23 miles.	We brought up at the bridge at 11 o’clock. Theo and Robert went in to Shepheards for the mail - were soon back as the bridge opened at 11:45 because of a flower show at the Agricultural Gardens. Fancy obstructing and interfering with a great commercial highway, because of a flower show! They always do it however - a tennis match, polo, races, what not! We got through without trouble - and were soon moored at the Ghezireh Palace. Drove into town in the afternoon.Friday, Mar. 23rd.     We came up to the hotel this afternoon, finding our rooms all ready for us - our usual big ones - opening on the garden.Saturday, Mar. 24.     To the Museum this morning. Met v. Bissing - saw the splendid Hathor cow, found this winter at the Mentu-hotep temple at Der el- Page 126Bahari. To Cairo this afternoon - tea at Shepheards - quite horrid in all that crowd, and blare of military music. Mr. Dalison to dine, pleasant evening.Sunday, 4th in Lent. Mar. 25th.     A warm, khamsiny morning - I had one of my huge windows wide open at 6:30 this morning - and the freshness of the lovely garden and the song of the birds was heavenly. They have all gone out to Mena House for the day. I beat a retreat from it, and have a quiet day before me - it being now 11 o’clock A.M. The great door of the sitting room where I am now writing stands open on the wide balcony with its awnings - and the birds come freely in and out. Monday, Mar. 26th.     Went to the Bazaars with Mr. Newberry this morning and to Dataris this afternoon to see some fine antiquities. A lovely little thing of Khuenaten and his wife - going to the Berlin Museum. V. Bissing came to dine.Tuesday, Mar. 27th.     Visiting etc. all day. Mr. Newberry to dine.Saturday, Mar. 31st.     This is our last day here. Yesterday we lunched with Mr. Newberry at the Angelterre. Dr. Sandwith dined with us last evening.Page 127Mrs. Dennis asked us to tea over here on the lawn, and then found that tea was never served there for less than 20 people. So we had it on the terrace. Mr. Newberry is dining with us tonight - and v. Bissing and Mr. Currelly came in after tea to say goodbye.Friday, April 6th. Venice. Hotel Britannia.     We are thankful indeed to find ourselves safely and comfortably settled in our spacious usual appartments here. Such an uncomfortable transit as we have had across the Mediterranean! We left Cairo Sunday morning the 1st for Port Said. Mr. and Mrs. Dennis were on the train. Mr. Newberry at the station to say goodbye. We found the Osiris had a very full passenger list - we had to wait until Monday noon before the mail steamer got through the canal. We had feared rough weather, for the wind had been high for days. But our experience was more trying than anything we had ever met - we went directly out into a very rough sea - and soon almost every passenger had taken to his berth. I was not sick at any time - but I went to bed at 5 o’clock and did not get up until 10 o’clock P.M. on Wednesday - as it was too rough and dreadful to be up. That little Osiris not only stood on both ends, but rolled over and jumped out of the water fairly - speed was of course slackened, and we reached Brindisi on Thursday morning at 1:30 - 14 hours behind time. The boat was really much of the time under water and I heard tons of water pouring over the deck above me. Our train left at 3 o’clock A.M. we arrived at Bologna at 6 P.M. spent  the night at that good hotel Brum - and were comforted by an excellentPage 128dinner and good beds, and arrived here about 6 o’clock this afternoon.Saturday, April 7th.     A visit to Salvedere’s this morning  and to San Marco, and I went this afternoon to see our invalid friends the Bensons.Sunday, April 8th. Palm Sunday.     The family went to the Academia this morning, I stayed home for a quiet morning and service. Theo and I went to Palazzo Capello at 3:30 and after a talk with Mr. and Mrs. Benson, went to Palazzo Mula, to have tea with the Browns in their pretty appartments. Monday, April 9th.     To the Frari to see the pictures - found they had all been removed to the church  of S. Toma, where we found it too dark to see them - the Frari actually seems to be under process of entire reconstruction - all the monuments taken down from the walls, and filled with scaffolding and derricks. After lunch to Barozzi’s where we  bought some beautiful stuffs - and then to Florian’s to tea.Tuesday, April 10.     I spent the morning with the Bensons - to the Academia in the afternoon - and again to tea at Florians - Mr. and Mrs. Brown dined with us. Page 129Wednesday, April 12.     Shopping, sightseeing and visiting. Saw the Eden garden and had a lovely row. Thursday, April 13.     Made the Bensons a long visit, this morning. Poor souls! weak, suffering and old - yet full of interest in life, and longing for an activity that will never come again to them! It is truly sad. The great hall and rooms of the Palazzo, were full of lovely flowers and freshness - and the garden was lovely with its blossoming trees. Such a contrast - Theo and I went to Borozzi’s and another shop this afternoon and had tea at Florians. A good concert this evening at the Hotel.Good Friday, April 13.     Theo and I went to say goodbye to the Bensons this morning. Theo left a very kind and substantial gift to Mr. Benson which will relieve them of all anxiety for a long time to come. At 2 o’clock we took the little hotel steamer and went to Torcello. It is undergoing a general repair - the fine Campanile is now finished and strengthened at which restorative work they have been busy for 2 years. But the whole of the young population, and the small island holds myriads of children, are such a nuisance, and such irrepressible beggars, that one’s pleasure is almost ruined. I love those excursions among the islands of the lagoons?- with their strange water wave marked by clustersPage 130of poles - the slender campaniles rising from each island, with such a fine effect. For two days the world has been absorbed with the tragedy of the eruption of Vesuvius - on of the worst on record,  - villages destroyed and buried in lava - desolation and loss of life everywhere. Naples itself is in darkness - covered with clouds of ashes - under the weight of which the big market, one church, and other buildings having collapsed with loss of life. Capri is said to be so covered with this volcanic ash, that crops and verdure are killed. We all separate tomorrow - Theo to Vienna to meet Eleanor - the rest of us to Florence.Easter Sunday, April 15.     A most perfect Easter day - brilliant sunshine, and the constant clanging of the melodious Florence bells. I had my precious little Christian Science service, all alone at home. A very comfortable journey over from Venice yesterday. We are in our old rooms here at the Grande Bretagne, found a hearty welcome - and Franz and old Giulia ready to wait on us.Monday, April 16.     Quite a busy day - tea at the Villino - Mary, Jean and Robert go off to Rome tomorrow for a week. Tuesday, April 17.     The children got off today. Lizzie not very well. Mme. Page 131Costantini made me a visit this afternoon - looking remarkably well, and very smart - asked me to lunch for Saturday. Wednesday.     Cold, disagreeable weather - at home most of the day .Saturday, April 21st.     I have been in the house for 2 days - weather bad, and slight cold. David Costantini called and left the Ivories. Mr. Berenson called. Nettie and I drove out today - and did some errands - Lizzie and she lunched with me - lovely day. The whole world is electrified by the horrible disaster in California. An earthquake has practically destroyed San Francisco! The accounts that have reached us from the wrecked and burning city seem too dreadful to be possible. Florence, May 4th. Saturday.     We have now been here for 3 weeks and two days - and will leave for Paris tomorrow, where Theodore and Eleanor are now waiting for us. With the exception of two or three days, we have had the worst kind of weather - rain, cold winds and several hail storms. Driving for pleasure has been out of the question. I have had constant pleasant visits from and with Lizzie and the girls. Nettie and I lunched one day at “La Loggia” - the charming country home of the Costantini’s - which they are thoroughly changing - making it as far  [not able to read] the 15th century. It will be an enchanting place. We had one of the very pleasant teas with the Newmans which they always give us - and were to have lunched with the Berenson’s at I Tatti, but the weather has been too cold. Hotel Westminster	Paris.     Monday, May 6th.     We had quite a comfortable journey on - though in a very shabby carriage for a “train de luxe”. Lizzie and the girls lunched with us - Nettie and Mary went to the station with us. Costantini kindly turned up to wish us goodbye. Arrived in Paris on time! and found Theo, Eleanor and Jones at the station. In our old rooms here.May 8th. Tuesday.     Bad weather yesterday - in the house all day. This morning Amelie and I drove out to the Bois. Charming - rained this afternoon. Thursday, May 10th.     Continued bad weather - violent storms. Have so enjoyed Eleanor’s visit. Sorry that she goes back to Dresden tomorrow.1