Page 53S.S. Prinzess Irene.	Nov. 27, 1904 - First Sunday in Advent.     We left home very reluctantly on the 1st and went to Boston where we spent five charming days and on the 6th moved on to New York where we found that the Irene would be four days late in sailing in consequence of some accident to her machinery.  It was tremendously vexing to us, as we lost our Naples steamer to Egypt - and shall have to take our chance when we reach there, with what we can find.  I saw some old friends in New York, and made some pleasant visits, and to my great pleasure Mary Rogers who was staying in Orange, came over and spent two days with me.  I found my rooms (we came aboard the 16th and sailed early in the day) on the steamer most delightful - they are the Captain’s rooms - very good sitting room - big bed room, and adjoining bath room, on the level of the bridge, and I am all alone with only the sea, and the life boats about me, and the Captain near in the chart room.  It has been most delightful - and the quiet and the rest very precious.  During the first night, we ran into a heavy storm and high seas - which resolved itself into a cyclone, from which or out of which the Captain retreated by turning south, and running 100 miles out of his course.  I hadn’t a qualm of sickness, but I stayed in bed, as there was so much movement, and as Amelie was too ill to leave her room.  Up at this height I got more motion - and how the wind roared and shrieked! I have never heard anything like it.  The whole boat, as it were, tookPage 54 to its bed.  Then followed two or three days of heavy rain - and then we emerged into comparatively calm seas and brilliant sunshine - I have a door opening from my sitting room on my own private deck, and one from my bath room, so that I get all the air I want - and my private view, as it were, at any moment I want the limitless sea, and the heavens, which are wonderful beyond description now at night, with the full moon, and perfectly cloudless.  This fine, steady steamer is not so fast as some - and we expected to take 12 days instead of 11 to Naples - which is the usual one - but the storms have so delayed us, that we did not reach Gibraltar until the 11th - yesterday - and we will make Naples only the day after tomorrow, the 14th day of the voyage, where Alice Wilson will join us for the winter.Tuesday, Nov. 29.	Grand Hotel - Naples.     Amelie called me at 6 o’clock this morning as I had asked her to - I love to see the early dawn on Vesuvius and the bay.  But it was thick and murky - damp and cold.  I had my last cup of coffee up in that little sky parlor of mine - and by that time I saw that Vesuvius was covered with snow - something I had never seen before - we landed about 11 o’clock - and were soon in our old rooms here, where Alice was waiting for us.  We found on the table of our sitting room, some lovely orchids with the card of kind Mr. and Mrs. Hanser.  The McKeever girls came to lunch with us - and then went back to the boat, bound for Genoa and St. Moritz.  The Longfellows, and Miss Hale are Page 55here - and the Kissels - and the 2 boys Smith and Ream.Dec. 9, 1904. Cairo. Shepheards Hotel.     We left Naples on Saturday, the 3d and made the weary, weary journey of 9 hours from there to Brindisi - Miss Hale, Mrs. Perkins, and Miss Morgan were along.  Theodore took the girls and Ream and Smith to Pompeii one day at Naples - and one of the pleasantest things I did was visiting Mr. and Mrs. Hanser at their charming villa at Posillipo. They are such kind nice people.  One cold, windy afternoon we drove up to the Vomero, and after much searching found the Sprenger-Müller place which for 3 years I have been trying to discover.  But he was not at home, greatly to my regret - though Mrs. Hanser told me that as he was quite deaf, I would have found him difficult.  I wanted to see his garden and talk to him - for he is a noted hybridigia and floriculturist.  We had to spend the night and most of the day at that hideous hotel at Brindisi - which we thought worse than usual.  When we stumbled late at night out of the R.R. station, and got into the omnibus, Jean, Alice and I - we found it already occupied by a large man who said to me, “I guess we’re going to have some fresh Americans on board”; the girls said I replied in a chilling manner, “Yes, we are Americans” - “I thought so” he replied, it’s so nice to hear the real thing”! While we might all be proud of being Americans, I don’t think we relished being told in that nasal voice that we were the “real thing”. Over the miseries of that 3 days voyage I will not linger!  We were happy to land at Port Said at 9 o’clock A.M. Wednesday Dec. 7th, and soon were Page 56journeying to Cairo by the new and improved route - an hour shorter than formerly - met all our nice people and established in time for tea in our charming appartment here.Monday, Dec. 12.    Very busy getting the Beduin in order - and arranging to send Abdul, with his wife and child up to his native country Dongola - Abdul has recovered remarkably - and seems stronger than he has been for three years - but we found that he had been drinking a good deal - and we decided it was better for him to go back to his own people - and to a warmer climate where he will be free from temptation.  He has a bit of land there, and some palm trees, and Theodore has arranged for Cook to send him money from time to time - and it seems a happy solution to the dondition which has given us a good deal of anxiety lately.Friday, Dec. 16th.     We came on board this morning - a cold day with strong South wind blowing - and of course no prospect of sailing - but we were so glad to give up hotel life, and take possession once more of this little home.  Cairo did not seem very pleasant.  We had heavy fogs each morning - and yesterday we had a fire built in our sitting room.  We dined with Miss Morgan and her brothers one evening - and had a charming evening.  They have altered the Sandwith house - made it much larger - and is just finishing a magnificent ball room - one of the most lovely rooms of the kind I have ever seen.  The boys, Smith and Ream, have gone up the Page 57river on one of Cooks steamers - Mr. Carter dined and lunched with us several times - and we spent the day with him at the Mona House, where he was staying.  He is quite settled in a pleasant appartment - and looks better and happier than he did.  We had tea one afternoon with Mrs. Packett, in her nice little home.  I liked her husband - and she seemed quieter and less gushing than the Miss Kirkbride we met a year ago on the steamer coming out here.Saturday, Dec. 17th.     Another day of south wind - and we have not moved.  Miss Morgan and her brother came this morning to see the boat.  The Ernest Longfellows, with Miss Hale and Mrs. Perkins are on the dahabya Agiz, with Salah as dragoman, going up, and waiting as we are for a favourable wind.  Mr. Carter and Mr. Edgar dined with us.Sunday, Dec. 18th.     7 miles.	Came through the bridge yesterday and are lying near the British embassy.  Alice, Jean and I walked all about the streets near us this morning - they are so wide and well paved and shaded, that we found it very pleasant - we dared not go far from the boat, as the wind seemed at last to be changing.  Any number of really handsome houses have been built in this quarter.  At noon the wind fell - and it was quite warm - about 3:30 it came gently from the north, and we spread our sails and went away before it.  The Agiz also put out, and the Isis, with a Boston man, Brooks, with the Tucks, andPage 58 Miss Morgan, going to Sakkarah, also started.  We made about 6 miles, and are almost in sight of Helouan.  The afternoon has been beautiful - and we sailed gently along the island of Rhodah - the old dilapidated palaces looking so picturesque - and the evening lights so fine - the 3 boats are lying near each other tonight.Monday, Dec. 19th.     The Longfellows came over to see us this morning - and after we went aboard the Isis, and the Tucks and Miss Morgan came back with us to see the boat - we were then going to the Agiz to see Miss Hale and Mrs. Perkins, when we found their boat had started.  We were soon off in a light wind - the river was crowded with boats, and we got into a great mix with them, and one of them caught her boom into our beautiful white sail and tore two holes in it, so we were obliged to stop and repair damages: Isis and Agiz ahead of us.  We have made about 3 miles, and are lying opposite Tura.Dec. 20th.- Tuesday.     Cloudy with rain at times - wind S.E. and S.W. tracked - and have made probably a mile!Dec. 21. Wednesday.     Weather cold, squally and disagreeable - heavy clouds and contrary winds - and some difficult turns.  The Agiz has disappeared, we left the Isis at Sakkarah - made very little over 11 miles.Page 59Dec. 22d - Thursday.     We began sailing about 11 o’clock - the wind grew strong and we went dashing along in rather an alarming way.  Then a sudden squall struck us - we had to drop our sails, and were driven to shore - a wildly exciting time getting our sails furled - and we lay the rest of the day rocking under bare poles.  As the evening drew on the wind fell, and we were able to cross the river and find a better place.  Such a heavenly night! a full moon - and grand palm trees above us on the bank.  Made 7 miles.Friday, Dec. 23d.     14 miles.	We did little until about 3 o’clock - when a light wind began and the Reis concluded to stop for the night - as the little dahabyah Bijou had pulled up behind us - with some of his friends in the crew.  But as a favourable wind began to rise Theodore sent out word that they must be off - so up came our stakes and we started in a fair wind and kept on until about 5 o’clock - we came to a difficult bend in the river and stopped for the night.  Cold, with heavy clouds and some rain.  Discouraging!Saturday, Dec. 24th.     6 miles.	Adverse winds - and made our few miles by tracking.  A sharp rain last night.Page 60Dec. 25, Sunday. Christmas.     A perfectly calm, but beautiful day and warm.  After our usual distribution of gifts - the men started their tracking, and we have made 11 miles.  This makes a week getting 56 miles.Monday, Dec. 26th.     10 miles.	Another delightful warm day - tracked all the morning.  About 4 this afternoon a light n. wind came, so that we sailed for 2 hours.  The river is full of birds - passed thousands of ducks today.  They are clever enough to lift just before danger approaches - I believe they recognize a dahabya - the only dangerous craft for them, as the natives in their boats never molest them.  The little, tidy unoccupied dahabya “Bijou” still keeps with us,Tuesday, Dec. 27th.     3 miles.	Which the poor men have made by continuous tracking.  Clear and cool.  The eastern desert and mountains made most lovely effects.Wednesday, Dec. 28.     6 miles.	When we started out at 8 o’clock this morning the wind was almost in our favour.  But again it failed and the men tracked all day - and were tired enough when Theodore ordered that they should tie up at 5 o’clock.Page 61Thursday, Dec. 29.     5 miles.	A little breeze and much tracking.Friday, Dec. 30.     5 miles.	The same history as yesterday, except the wind has been very strong - veering from S.E. to south.Saturday, Dec. 31.     4-1/2 miles.	A strong head wind - tracked and pulled to anchor.Sunday, Jan. 1st, 1905.     6 miles.	We had hoped for a change of luck to-day, but the conditions remain unchanged.  Day cool.Monday, Jan. 2d.     43 miles.	Samalut.  At last Fortune has given us a favourable wind - a light wind beginning early, grew into a steady, fine sailing wind - and we began leaving the miles behind us in a good old fashioned manner.  We soon passed Fashen, then Maghaghah, Matar, and Kolosna, and are now lying at Samalut, almost opposite the Gebel et Teu - with its Coptic convent.  Late in the afternoon we caught sight of the Agiz, in a bend of the river before us.Tuesday, Jan. 3d.     25 miles.	Another good, but light wind brought us about one Page 62o’clock to Minia - where we stopped until 3:30 for mail and supplies.  Saleh was there this morning - he must have sailed well into the night.  The weather is growing milder.  A huge mail - and bad news again from Milwaukee - poor Gwynne again in hospital - very serious.  Dear Ettie continually in my thoughts.  Made five miles from Minia.Wednesday, Jan. 4th.     23 miles.	A gentle sailing breeze all day - occasionally dying out.  Passed Beni Hassan about 11 o’clock.  Rhodah at 3 - and are now within a mile or so of Mellawie - a charming really warm day.  We have been immersed in the newspapers - and in the extraordinary news of the protracted siege of Port Arthur.  What a slaughter - what heroism on the part of the Japanese - what hopeless demoralization and incompetency of the Russians - a harrowing thing to think of.Thursday, Jan. 5.     8 miles.	A warm, beautiful day - we are lying tonight about a mile above Hag Kandil.Friday, Jan. 6th.     26 miles.	A very exciting day - we began early in a gentle enough manner - but the wind steadily grew stronger and when we came to the great turn at the approach to the Gebel Abu Feda the Reis took to the bank and furled his sail.  There we stayed for 3Page 63 hours, when he thought it safe to go out again.  The river is now so full of gyassas, that sailing is sometimes risky - as we entered the part of the river under the cliffs, there were many of them about, and in the gale which broke upon us, we came nearly to our destruction by one of these bearing down upon us, quite unmanageable.  The shrieking of the wind, the cries of the sailors were exciting.  At one time we had 13 men on the boom trying to furl the sail - as soon as we found ourselves able, we dropped our anchors, and after, pulled to shore - thankful enough to make ourselves fast.  The worst experience we have ever had.Saturday, Jan. 7.     30 miles.	The gale continued all night - a fine north wind this morning which lasted all day, sailed calmly through the dam at Asyut, and stopped for our mail.  I did not go off the boat.  Theo and the girls went for a walk, and met the Frasers - their boats are being repaired, and they are now living on a rented one.  An exquisite little moon has dawned upon us!1st Sunday after Epiphany.	Jan. 8th.     64 miles.	A wonderful day for us.  We began in a light favourable wind at 7:30 and we have gone on splendidly and uninterruptedly the whole day in spite of many awkward turns - passed the 2 dahabyas which started out before us at Asyut - and about 1 o’clock overhauled the Agiz on the sand - exchanged passing greetingsPage 64and offered help - but she was soon off and after us and only arrived where we are an hour and a half after we had tied up.  Saleh came in this evening to say all was well - they were 2 hours on the sand.Jan. 9th - Monday.     34-1/2 miles.	We had a letter from Mary Higby at Asyût, telling of Gwynne’s better condition.  Last night was very cold.  Amelie brought in to show me Billy’s bowl of water which always stands on deck, frozen solid!  the second occurrence of the kind we have known on the Nile.  The mercury was 49 in my room.  But the day has been warm and splendid - and the little new moon and Venus close to her made such a splendid picture just above a group of 3 solitary palms on the bank that I could not get my usual nap before dinner.Tuesday, Jan. 10th.     18 miles.	Nagh Hamadi - which we reached by 4 o’clock of course finding the bridge closed.  The Agiz drew up about an hour later and Miss Hale and Mrs. Perkins came over to see us.Wednesday, Jan. 11th. Kasr es Sayd.     8 miles.	We sailed through the bridge at 9 o’clock this morning.  When we came to the great bend of the river here, we could go no further - and were obliged to tie up against a very high bank.  The Agiz had to do the same - we went over to see  [the page is cut off].Page 65Thursday, Jan. 12th.     26 miles.	We are about four miles below Keneh tonight, we have been sailing since 6 o’clock.  The Reis finding a light favourable wind blowing at that time, got off very quietly - I, of course, from my room, heard the preparations, and lifting a corner of my curtain looked out.  And what a sense of wonderful beauty was before me.  The bold range of cliffs behind Keneh, were standing transfused with a luminous rose colour - their bases all in blue darkness and shadow - and we were sailing over a gold, pink river - the reflection from the big mountain stretching to where we were lying.  A splendid wonder it was!Friday, Jan. 13th.     23 miles.     We have had a diversified day of wind - strong and light - and calms - and have made our miles by every known craft of Nile sailorship. The Agiz has been near us most of the time - though yesterday we beat her 4 hours.Saturday, Jan. 14th.     16-1/2 miles. We have worked hard all day - hoping to reach Luxor, as we were last within a mile of Nagada.  But winds were very light and contrary and we tracked most of the time.  The Agiz, and Bijou being behind us - until, about one o’clock a great bend in the river brought our boat to a standstill - and the others with their keels were able to hold on - and passed us - we have all been tracking ever since - the others about a mile before us.  The weatherPage 66has been both hot and cold - the sun quite powerful - and the wind keen and cold.2d Sunday after Epiphany.     Jan. 15. Luxor. 6 miles.     We tracked and pulled through a perfect calm this morning - until just as we came to the town a good breeze sprang up, and we sailed up to our old place on the sand island - and have a beautiful view of the mountains.  The Agiz came along half an hour after, and went across just under the castle, where we used to go.  Very few dahabyas here - and the town very quiet.Monday, Jan. 16.     Very busy this morning, settling etc. a great scrubbing going on outside and inside - and a wash literally of 4 weeks.  Billy enjoys our island enormously and spends his time chasing the birds, and barking at all comers.  Theo and Alice went over to the town this morning - paid a visit to Mohamed Mohassib - Theo reports him still grieving for his son - and looking very old and sad.  Mrs. Quibell came in this afternoon looking so very well.  Mr. Q. arrives tonight from Aswân.Tuesday, Jan. 17th.     Alice and I went over to town this morning and paid a visit to Miss Buchanan and Nubeewya - Miss B. a little pale and tired looking - Nubeewya quite the reverse.  Their new building begins to make quite aPage 67showing at the lower end of the town.  The second story is almost ready for the roof, and the first will be ready for occupation by the 1st of March.  Nubeewya was very happy to see me again - Miss B. had written me that she had asked to be baptized - it was just after they came back from Ramleh in September.  Nubeewya went to Miss B. and said, “I want to be a Christian” “I don’t believe in our Prophet any more, but I believe in your Christ”. Miss B. had always refrained from talking to her of her religion - so she said “why do you want to be a Christian?” “Because all the good, kind people I know are Christians”. She has become they tell me a joy in the house - what a transformation for a little savage 3 years ago! Mrs. Perkins and Miss Hale to lunch.Wednesday, Jan. 18.     A rather warm still day - Theo went over to Der el Bahari to see M. Naville.  The Agiz started up the river today, towing.Thursday, Jan. 19.     A quiet day at home - and busy - Mrs. Miller and Capt. Miller with their two girls called this evening.  They had sent a letter introductory a few days since from Mr. John Parsons of New York.  Pleasant people - first visit in Egypt - though Capt. Miller formerly of the navy had been with Grant in his trip around the world, and stopped at Cairo.Page 68Friday, Jan. 20th.     Rather warmer today - Theodore and the Millers rode over to Medinet Abu - Alice and I to see Miss Buchanan and afterwards to the Luxor Hotel for tea with the Misses Collins - Nice, simple Scotch bodies they are, I like them.Saturday, Jan. 21st.     We have had a long days excursion to the Tombs of the Kings.  Mr. and Mrs. Quibell met us and lunched with us.  The Millers went along, but did not lunch with us.  A lot of people over there, so we went up to the Thothmes IV plateau, and had our lunch there.  A splendid vantage ground - but a cool wind was blowing - neither I or Mrs. Quibell went down into any of the Tombs - and I came home early.  I was in my chair and the donkeys were not very good.  And the detestable Sugar people have spoiled every thing on this side.  Those lovely rides we used to have through those smiling fields, are gone now forever!  They have built canals and railways to carry their sugar cane - and the jolting, noisy little trains are always hustling up and down with their loads of sugar cane.  It was quite an unwarrantable usurpation too, everyone says.  Mr. Edgar also lunched with us - and Jones took a lot of interesting photographs.3d Sunday after Epiphany - Jan. 22.     A quiet day at home.  Mr. Quibell dined with us.Page 69Monday, Jan. 23d.     A really cold day, with high blustering winds - in spite of which Theodore and the girls went over again to the Mentuhotop temple - and stopped for tea with Mr. Quibell. M. and Mme. Naville dined with us.  They are a pair of giants - and handsome ones too, and we found them very pleasant.  He is much pleased with the lift Theodore has given him for the Temple.  A gift of £100 - it seems the Egypt Ex. So. is at present much hampered by lack of funds.  Petrie, who is excavating at Mt. Sinai, everyone thinks unwisely, claims most of the money the Society has for his work - he has so embroiled himself with all his surroundings, natives decline working for him - and steal almost everything he has - assistants leave him etc.  So it was feared that the every interesting work at the Mentuhotep temple would have to stop for a time.  The Navilles go over there to stay, tomorrow, in the fine house the German Government has built there and I was so amused when he replied to Theodore’s question of “Are you quite alone there?” “Practically yes - there is a Göttingen man there by the name of Sethe” - as this is an awesome name to the German archaeological world, it seemed very funny.Tuesday, Jan. 24.     Another disagreeable day of cold and wind.  The Millers to lunch.  We have been living in such exciting interest for weeks in the Russio-Japanese war.  “Has Port Arthur fallen?” has been the question with which we have greeted each mail.  Then came the news of its disgraceful capitulation - the incredible evidences of the rottenness of Page 70of the Russian government - army - navy - individuals!  Never in all history has there been so disgraceful an exposés of a peoples dishonor and perfidy.  Today came the telegram of the revolutionary disturbances in St. Petersburg! - harrowing in its sadness!Wednesday, Jan. 25.     A cold S. wind all day.  The young men, Smith and Ream, appeared this morning, arriving from Aswân last evening.  They are at the Luxor Hotel.  They all went over to the Tombs of the Kings this afternoon.  Theo tells me he has arranged with Mr. Quibell to quit work up where they are in the Valley - and to send the men to join those already working up north of the Tomb of Amenhotep II.Thursday, Jan. 26th.     The Millers came to say goodbye.  Jean and I went to Miss Buchanans for tea - such a pleasant visit - and Nubeewaya so delightful and astounding.  Smith and Ream dined with us.  Bridge of course followed; high winds.Friday, Jan. 27.     A nice quiet day - the rest went to Tombs of Queens - then back here to tea.  Very cold.Saturday, Jan. 28.     The whole cavalcade went to Karnak.  I took my exercise withPage 71Billy on the sands.4th Sunday after Epiphany. Jan. 29.     A quiet pleasant day for me.  Mr. and Mrs. Joe Smith came to dine.Monday, Jan. 30.     I have been very busy all day with Paul’s Rose Catalogue - getting up my rose list for this year.  There are such complex questions about Rose growing at the Reef. Just before the night fell I noticed a strange looking dahabya pulling up at the bank opposite us - quite new to me, - the “Sahabiha” flying the Stars and Stripes - and soon after the lamps were lighted, who should appear but Dr. and Mrs. Campbell!  We were so glad to see them - and they have the Sahabiha - it is a boat built for the Khedives mother, and of course on the hareem lines.  They too, took a month for coming up.Tuesday, Jan. 31.     Cool.  Theo had gone with 3 boys - young Arrowsmith and 2 others from Groton, with a letter from Mr. Gardiner.Thursday, Feb. 2d.     Two very quiet days - the Picketts from Cairo, who are here in their R.R. car, dined with us.Page 72Friday, Feb. 3d.     We were at home all day, until in the afternoon we visited the Agiz, who arrived today - then to the Sabiha to see the Campbells.  They have an interesting and rather pretty little boat - built in the Hareem style - it was built and belongs to the Khedives mother.  A visit from M. Maspero after we got home - and Smith and Ream came for bridge in the evening.  Maspero’s dined with us and the Abbé Thèodant.Fifth Sunday after Epiphany. Feb. 5th.     Smith and Ream came to breakfast - Jean went over with them afterwards to church.  Mr. Ayrton to lunch and a visit from the Agiz people, who came to tea, and we made Mrs. Perkins and Miss Hale stay for dinner.  Theo went immediately after lunch with Mr. Ayrton over to the Quibells and the busy day came to an end.Monday, Feb. 6th.     A very windy day - Theo and the girls in spite of it, went over to the Valley, where when Theodore appeared the workmen greeted him with a cheer, and he knew it meant some sign of promise - and the men had found the lintel of a door to a tomb.  They said they might clear it to the entrance in a few days.  Very encouraging.Tuesday, Feb. 7th.     A calm, warm day.  Theo came back from Luxor this noon, with a most beautiful statuette in silver he had bought of Mohassib.  In Page 73style and treatment it suggests that Egyptian statuette in bronze and silver, the Lady Takûshit, now in Athens and shown in the “Struggle of Nations” by Maspero.  Smith and Ream went with Theo and Weigal, who had lunched here, to the Valley, and the two first dined with us.  Mr. and Mrs. Joe Smith came in during the evening.Friday, Feb. 10.     This is the third day of cold, strong S. wind we have had.  Sand flying in clouds. There was literally no stirring abroad.Saturday, Feb. 11th.     Theo and Mr. Weigall went over to the Valley today; several steps leading to the door of the tomb uncovered.  Weigall came in for tea - after which Theo went over to the Miriam to see M. Maspero about the tomb, Quibell being away.  He authorized Theo to open it, and Mr. Weigall will look after it.  Theo wrote Mrs. Quibell about it, explaining.6th Sunday after Epiphany - Feb. 12.     A Mr. Porch came to lunch with Mr. Weigall.  Theo met him the other day.  He is English, a devoté to flints.  He has been encamped near Gûrna, at the mouth of a little rock tomb, he is a handsome agreeable little fellow - seems to know every one - and especially all Italy and Italians.  He travels everywhere with an Italian servant who would seem to be a half savant.  His ancestral home in EnglandPage 74is Glastenbury Abbey - he goes very soon to India - with this servant and a camel he has come all the way from the Red Sea to Luxor.  Theo and Weigall rode over to the Valley of the Kings this afternoon - when Theo got home he brought with him two or three queer parcels - and he had an air of great elation.  He first unwrapped a yoke of a chariot, finely decorated in gold and colour - in perfect condition, then a long baton, or wand of office - also finely decorated - then produced a large beautiful green, hard stone scarab, with gilded bands, beautifully inscribed even to the wings.  He said that the workmen had reached the door of the tomb chamber, and they went down into it.  A small aperture had been broken in this door, large enough to admit a man.  This door was of stone, plastered with mud - with many seals on it - and the tomb had been broken into in ages gone by - for the things Theo found in the corridor and brought home, had no doubt been dropped by the thieves.  Weigall remained behind, to sleep with the guards at the tomb, and Mr. and Mrs. Smith also went over to stay with him.  Theo wrote a note to M. Maspero and Mr. Sayce who arrived on the Istar yesterday, to come and see the things.  They all came over in the evening.  Mrs. Sheldon Amos, who is staying with Mr. Sayce, also came.Monday, Feb. 13th.     We all made an early start for the Valley this morning.  Alice has not been feeling very well for a few days - and was so melancholy at the idea of being left behind on the opening day of the tomb, that I persuaded Theodore to send for one of the Victorias that occasionally take people over - and she and I rode over most comfortably.  We had to Page 75go on our donkeys across the wide sand waste - and then take the carriage and we had to get out for the ascent and the descent of the high canal embankment.  But the moment we entered the valley, the going was very good.  We found Weigall and the Smiths, the native Inspector, and Maspero and his Secretary soon arrived.  The inner door was ordered down - and while it was being done, Theo and M. Maspero made a long hot climb to look at a certain site the latter thought favourable - and the rest of us sat on the rocks, or in the carriage from which the horses had been taken.  Mrs. Smith who was wildly enthusiastic about the whole thing, said that the night had been one of the most beautiful she had ever spent.  They felt the cold very much, and got up twice to make tea - and again very early and climbed to one of the highest points to see the sun rise.  In half an hour the native Inspector came out of the tomb and said to Weigall “the entrance is free”. He and Mr. Smith went down, and in a short time Weigall came up pale and breathless.  I thought he had been affected by bad air - but it was only excitement - for he ejaculated “wonderful” “extraordinary” etc.  Mr. Smith said, “there is everything there but a grand piano., - the place is crowded with furniture and coffins”.  We waited until M. Maspero and Theodore were back, when they at once went down and stayed a long time.  The tomb was so accessible, opening by its first flight of steps on a level with the pathway - from which a short descending corridor leads to another short stairway, which gives immediate access to the tomb chamber.  It lies just between No’s 3 and 4 - the former an unfinished tomb intended for Ramses III - 4 also unfinished - the tomb of Ramses XII.  Neither M. Maspero or Quibell thoughtPage 76this site worth working, but Theo in his thorough way said he should go on clearing up both sides of that side valley - and it was just by this method that he found the tomb of Thothmes IV and Hatshepsut.  it is remarkable that this tomb, crowded in between 3 and 4 could have escaped complete spoilation.  When these men at last appeared they told us wondrous tales, and allowed us one by one to go down - by the light of candles I could see a dim glitter of gold everywhere and a confusion of coffins and mummies.  Arrangements were made at once for bringing electric wires into the tomb, as the Duke of Connaught was expected in the afternoon and M. Maspero was very pleased to be able to give him such a sight.  Then we all went up to the Thothmes IV plateau, where Jones had lunch for us.  Too soon after this M. Maspero and Theo started for the tomb again in the hot sun -- and we followed.  They went immediately into it - and when in about 20 minutes I saw one rushing up and demanding water and brandy, I knew that Theo must have fainted as he did a few years ago, under exactly the same circumstances.  When I reached the first flight of steps, I saw that two people were supporting him at the bottom step, bathing his head and hands.  He called up to me however that he was about over it - and was soon able to be helped up - and took refuge in the carriage - and soon seemed none the worse for it.  About 4 o’clock, the Duke and his party arrived with a military escort - and went down into the tomb.  We had withdrawn to a respectful distance and were sitting on the rocks - when the Duke, a fine soldierly looking fellow and M. Maspero emerged.  The Duke strode over the rocks to where Theodore was, and heartily congratulated him, and begged to Page 77present him to the Duchess.  After they left, Mr. Quibell came very much disgruntled, to find the tomb had been opened in his absence.  M. Maspero discovered by the various inscriptions in the tomb, that it was the burial place of Yuaa and Tuaa, the father and mother of the great Queen Tyi, wife of Amenhotep III.  The cartouche of this king is on many of these things - and that of a daughter of his - Set-amen.  All the objects so far as they have been seen, are in perfect order and good and very beautiful.Tuesday, Feb. 14th.     Another day with all the family again to the Valley.  Again I had the carriage and took Mme. Maspero with me.  Mr. Sayce and Mrs. Sheldon Amos also went over - and we had an open lunch table at the Thothmes plateau - all of these, with the Abbe Théadant, Weigall, Smith and Ayrton.  After we got home, Capt. Watson of the Duke’s party called, also Maspero, Lacau, and the Abbé.  Sir John and Lady Evans dined with us.  The tomb was visited today by the Ex-Empress Eugénie, and also by Prince Gustave Adolphe of Sweden.  He and Theo seem to have struck up quite a friendship.  Theo was much pleased with him - a sensible, intelligent young fellow.  He was very enthusiastic over what he saw, and said, “Moi, Je suis aussi explorer - je fouille dans mon pays - si ca m’arrivera de venir ice pour fouiller comme vous!”  One of his aid-de-camps after sent Mr. Davis a note thanking him again and again.  Also the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire saw it.Page 78Wednesday, Feb. 15.     Theo and Mr. Sayce went over to the tomb and spent the day - we stayed at home - a calm day - Theo sent his Thothmes book to the Duke of Connaught.  In the evening after he got back, Capt. Yarde-Buller A.D.C. to his H.R.H. called to thank him, and afterwards Capt. Watson came in and joined him.  Capt. W. was very entertaining with his talk about his experiences - having been with Kitchener through the whole of the campaign in the Soudan.  M. Lacau dined with us.Thursday, Feb. 16.     A warm, calm day - over to the Valley again, but I in my donkey chair.  I saw the different things found in the tombs well today for the first time - as they had been brought out of the tomb and placed in that of Ramses XII.  The most wonderful and varied collection of beautiful things in perfect condition.  The 2 mummies of Yuaa and Tuaa, well preserved and very impressive, despite the fact that Tuaa’s eyes are wide open.  They had double coffins of the finest workmanship literally overlaid with gold - chairs, boxes, 3 funeral couches, vases, scarabs, a great roll of papyrus, etc etc.  extraordinarily rich - a wonderful find.  At 3 o’clock Theo received a note from Capt. Waters, which had been sent over from the dahabya, saying their Royal Highnesses would be glad to come about 5 o’clock to the boat if it would be convenient.  So we had to drop everything, order out donkeys, and hurry home the 7 miles.  We had just time to wash our faces, and take off our hats, when they arrived, also in riding dress.  The Duke, Duchess, their daughterPage 79Princess Margaret, a Lady in Waiting and Capt. Buller.  I never met simpler, pleasanter people.  They were very much interested in every thing - and it was queer to see them in my room, which they declared lovely.  They stayed over an hour, and evidently enjoyed themselves, and parted most fraternally from Theodore - Gen. Sir John Maxwell was also with them.  M. and Mme. Maspero, the Abbé, called to say goodbye as they start down the river tomorrow.  Mr. Sayce and Mrs. Amos also called.Friday, Feb. 17.     A quiet day and evening at home!  Lovely!Saturday, Feb. 18.     Theo and the girls went to the Valley again - Weigall came back with them and had tea.  He still sleeps at the tomb.  M. and Mme. Naville to tea.  Mr. Sayce dined with us.  He starts down on Monday.  We start for Aswân tomorrow - I don’t know for what unless to give Theodore a rest.  We can only stay a day or two.Septuagesima Sunday - Feb. 19.     9 miles.	Mr. Ayrton came to breakfast - we were off at noon, and with difficulty reached Erment. It is so nice to be free of people once more.Page 80Monday, Feb. 20.     42 miles.	A beautiful warm day - we are about a mile below El Kab.Tuesday, Feb. 21.     53 miles.	A fine sailing day - we are from 2 to 3 miles below Kom Ombo.Wednesday, Feb. 22.	Aswân.     28-1/2 miles.	We arrived about 3 o’clock - and have ever since been wondering why we came.  But the dry, warm air is delicious, and so are the red-yellow sands.  Are lying at our old island.Thursday, Feb. 23.     Theodore and I have been home all day - the girls went to the Barrage this afternoon with Amelie - wind.Friday, Feb. 24.     A very high wind all day.  Girls lunched at the Cataract Hotel with the Boston Hooper girls - who came over to the boat late in the afternoon.  Dr. Morrall called this morning.  The girls and I with Jones were at the Bazaar this morning - Jean and I went for tea to the Savoy - and had it in the garden back of the hotel.  it was charming - the gardens are of real extent, and wonderfully improved.  So much more attractive Page 81than the Cataract Hotel.  Theo has been trying to find a tug - but failed.Saturday, Feb. 25.     12 miles.	We got off at 7:30 and are now within 14 miles of Kom Ombo - a really warm day.Sexigesima Sunday. Feb. 26.     26 miles.	The men have worked nobly from since 4 o’clock this morning - working most of the time - we are lying 3 miles above Silsileh.Monday, Feb. 27.     40-1/2 miles.	The men began at 3 o’clock, and have rowed until 6 P.M.	We passed 3 dahabyas going up.  Near El Kab.Tuesday, Feb. 28.     38 miles.	We have had a warm day and evening - many clouds about - fear N. wind tomorrow.  Gebelen.Wednesday, March  1st.     9 miles.	We have had such gales of wind today, and have worked along in all sorts of ways, but have only reached Erment, or a little below it, and tied up at 6 o’clock.Page 82Luxor - March 2nd. - Thursday.     Starting very early this morning we reached our old mooring place on the sand opposite the Castle, at 8 o’clock.  Luxor looks quite deserted.  We were a little over 5 days coming down.  We found the Campbells here, and they came over to see us at once.  Mr. Weigall also came in with many interesting things to say.  Quite warm - we all rode over to Der el Bahari - and had tea with Mr. Ayrton at the little stone house.  I saw for the first time the beautiful sarcophagus found by Naville on the terrace of the Mentuhotep temple - of one of the “favourites” of the King - Kau-it - quite exquisite.  Mr. Ayrton says there were several graves found.  I think he said 7 - three of them bearing names of which the above was one - the rest were nameless.  Alice and I came directly home, but Theo and Jean went on to the Quibells.  The Campbells started down the river this afternoon.Friday, March 3rd.     Very warm.  Theodore and Jean off to Karnak this morning.  The boxes began arriving from the tomb this morning, and were taken to a big felucca just behind us. It looked quite awful to see the long line of men, staggering over those wide burning sands, in that hot sun, carrying such loads.  Mr. Quibell and Weigall came with them, and the latter in to lunch with us.  It will be impossible to get them all over today.  There were several policemen - and Mr. Quibell and a force will sleep there tonight.  Ayrton came to dine.  I had expected Miss Buchanan and Nubaweeya to tea this afternoon and was so disappointed that they were Page 83prevented.  M. Lacau was here however, and Miss Insinger.  To tea with Miss Buchanan, Theo, Jean and I, and had such a pleasant visit.Saturday, March 4th.     A very hot day - we all went over to Luxor and met the Forbes-Leiths, who are coming to dine tonight.  Theo has arranged with the Sugar Co. of Nag Hamadi, to give us a tug on the 8th.  We have had a charming dinner - Mrs. Forbes-Leith - Col. and Mrs. Burn (her daughter and son-in-law) and  Mrs. Tweedah.  They were delighted with everything here.  We get off tomorrow.Quinquagesima Sunday.	March 5th.     We did not get off this morning, as a gale from the north was raging.  Weigall here for breakfast.  We had waffles - which he said always seemed to him like eating “warm pillows”.  Mr. Ayrton came in late this afternoon, with the Capt. from Kons, with whom he had been to look at the huge prehistoric cemetery up near Kom Ombo.  It is supposed to be a secret - and he reported most favourably about it - and says it has the appearance of being absolutely untouched.  He will begin work upon it at once for Theodore.  The Quibells called to say goodbye.  Altogether we have been at Luxor this year 5 weeks and 3 days.Monday March 6th.     22-1/2 miles.	We got off this morning at 7 o’clock - in almost a calm - but had to give up rowing and begin floating Page 84before we were out of sight of Luxor - and so we have come along, and are now near Nagada - day has been very cool.Tuesday, March 7th.     28 miles.	The usual north wind has prevailed today - but in spite of it we are now lying nearly opposite Keneh, having been driven to the bank at 5 o’clock, with our nose down stream.  The wind is howling tonight - everything is banging and rattling.  We are hoping our tug may come to meet us tomorrow.Ash-Wednesday, Mar. 8th.     We laid at our place of last night, until a few minutes before 3 o’clock, our tug appeared - and soon we were swiftly and smoothly putting the miles behind us - until at 8 o’clock, we had tied up at Nag Hamadi - very cold - and high winds.Thursday, Mar. 9th.     51 miles.	Passed the bridge at 8:30 and pulled up on the other side for mail, marketing etc.  Got a huge mail bag of letters and papers - and were soon off - the tug is a powerful one, and we have come 51 miles since 9:30 - against this northern gale.  It has been astounding to see the towns appear one after the other.  First Balliana, where were lying the Sabiha with the Campbells, and the Zenet-el-Nil with the Birds - we had  only time to wave to them as we rushed by.  Then came Girga - and then Menshia appeared as if by magic - then Page 85we were upon Akmim - and about 5:30 pulled up at Sohag.  The sky has been filled with clouds - no sunshine - and the exquisite little moon seen tonight for the first time.  Passed the Isis, and the Ammon-Ra, late in the afternoon.Friday, Mar. 10th.     73 miles.	Started at 6:30 much of the time a high wind - and cold.  The thermometer in my room was at 50 this morning - but the air most delicious - with a bright sun, and almost a winters crispness in the air.  The tug went on the sand for a few minutes this morning.  Made Asyût about 3 o’clock - having passed the Bijou with the Smith family aboard this side of Aboutig.  Got our mail at Asyût - had an exciting time getting through the Weir.  Heard that Mr. Sayce left Asyût yesterday.Saturday, Mar. 11th.     88 miles.	A cold north wind all day - tug was twice on the sand.  We passed Mr. Sayce just above Rada - and pulled up at Minia at 5:30 at the edge of the wide sand bank that lies in front of the town -which seems to make a general promenade, and playground for the town - many boys engaged in football.First Sunday in Lent, Mar. 12th.     64-1/2 miles.	Fashen.  We have had a difficult river in places today - and a crowd of gyassas, so that we had to Page 86leave the tug, and the men rowed a short distance to Fashen.  Were detained 3 hours at Sheik Fadle, the tug getting coal.Wasta - Monday, Mar. 13th.     37 miles.	We dismissed our tug as by agreement at Wasta - where we arrived at noon, and have had to wait, as the N. wind was so strong.Tuesday, Mar. 14.     30 miles.	We started at 7 this morning - not being in a hurry now to reach Cairo.  It has been cool, but most delightful - the air having such a delicious quality, and we did so enjoy being without a tug.Wednesday, Mar. 15th.     11 miles.	We pulled up here at Bedresheyn at 6 o’clock - such a pretty resting place - with the splendid palms characteristic of this neighborhood above us across the sand.  We stopped about a mile above Helouan on the opposite side for an hour to rest the men this afternoon, and had a charming walk through the fields and among the palms - and saw on the high road just beyond us, the carriages, omnibusses, automobiles, and other horrid evidences of civilization.Page 87Thursday, Mar. 16th.     We have had the day at Sakara - it was hot.  About 40 people lunching at Mariette’s house.  I did not go to a single tomb - having gone only for the ride which is so beautiful until you reach the desert and even then, that great plateau of wavy, undulating, uncompromising desert, has its impressiveness - and always its splendid air.  But those paths through those great palm forests, and the fertile fields is charming beyond description.  But it was not coming home - the donkeys in my chair were miserable, tired to death poor things by the hard service of the winter - and the donkey boys vociferous and unpleasant, and I was glad to reach the comfort of the shaded deck, tea, and Billy’s affectionate greetings.Friday, Mar. 17.     15 miles.	Cairo.  We reached here at 11:30 - got through the bridge in the usual exciting manner, and tied up in our old quarters beneath the Ghezireh Palace Hotel at 3 o’clock.  Very hot.  Weigall down from Luxor for his exams - dined with us.Saturday, Mar. 18.     Home all day.  Theodore, Jones and the men, carried by boat over to the museum this morning the antiquities we brought down from Luxor.  I was glad to get rid of them.Page 88Second Sunday in Lent, Mar. 19.     Col. and Mrs. Watson and baby to tea this afternoon.  Mr. Edgar came in and Mr. Carter down from Tanta to dine and talk our affairs over with Theo - he looks wretched.Monday, Mar. 20.     Wasted the morning in Cairo.Tuesday, Mar. 21.     A cold disagreeable day - with gale - thunder and lightning.  The 3 Hooper girls of Boston dined with us - very nice people.  To the Museum this morning, to see the things from the tomb which are now pretty well unpacked.  A whole, large room has been given them.  The Bijou, with the Smiths came down on Sunday, and is just ahead of us.Wednesday, Mar. 22.     Mr. Carter to lunch - we dined at the Hotel - (Ghezireh) with the Forbes-Leiths - several pleasant people.Thursday, Mar. 23rd.     A really, cold day, with high wind - went to the Continental Hotel this afternoon to hear M. Maspero, on “the Find” - a lecture for the benefit of the Y.M.C.A. of Cairo - a crowded hall.  Everyone showed much interest.  It was difficult to hear him - as his voice was low, with the usual French monotonous manner.Page 89Friday, March 24th.     At home and busy all the morning - Theo engaged the Nitseris the other day to take us to the Barrage this afternoon.  We asked Mr. and Mrs. Watson, and the Hooper girls.  We had never seen this Barrage and I have always wanted to see the river below Cairo, and so it was very interesting.  It took us about an hour and a half - so that we didn’t have any time for the Barrage, and very little time for that beautiful garden - the best in Egypt.  The whole thing was very un-Egyptian - the two barrages, one over the Damietta, the other over the Rosetta branch - with their long line of arches and towers - with the land between made into this park-like garden.  The whole effect was rather Venetian.  Home by 7 o’clock - having had tea on the way back.Saturday, Nov. 25.     At the Museum this morning - Theo showed Mrs. Burn about - as she was not able to be with her mother and father, Admiral and Mrs. Forbes Leith the other day, when they saw the things.  She went from there to the train, as they all join their yacht at Alexandria, and go for a Mediterranean tour to the Holy Land, Greece, etc.3d Sunday in Lent, Mar. 26.     Home all day - a worse Khamsin condition than yesterday.  Ther. 86 in the shade, about 5 o’clock we went for a drive towards the Pyramids - very delightful.  Dr. Sandwith for dinner.  He seemed tired and dull - without his old sparkle.  He sails on Thursday for 2 Page 90months in America.Monday, Mar. 28th.     This has been a busy day - in town in the morning - Jean and Alice to the Linton-Smiths to lunch.  Mr. and Mrs. Newman in the afternoon came in and after that we all went to Miss Morgans garden reception - which was charming - a delightful band playing and many people we knew.  A quiet evening - our last on the boat.Tuesday, Mar. 29th.     To the Museum with Theodore - the room with the “find” is now open to the public.  Dr. and Mrs. Campbell were there.  They leave tomorrow on the Roumanie.  Miss Morgan and Dr. Sandwith also go on it.  Left the boat for the Hotel and are now up at the Ghezireh Palace.Wednesday, Mar. 30th.     Jean and Alice dined in town with the Pecketts this evening and Joe Smith and wife dined with us and we all went in to the concert at Shepheards.Thursday, Mar. 31st.     Alice and I spent the morning at the Zoo.  After the rain of last night the gardens were lovely.  Monsieur Lackau dined with us.Page 91Friday, April 1st.     A last visit to the Museum this morning and drove in town all of us at 3:30 to make some visits - in spite of the threatening skies.  We stopped at the Ottoman Bank a moment as we supposed - and a heavy rain began as Theodore went in - in a moment or two it had so increased that we sat there in the closed carriage nearly an hour before Theo could come out.  I never saw such a down pour - with constant thunder and lightening - as there is little or no drainage in Cairo, the streets soon became veritable rivers - and when we could start for home, it was like driving along the bed of a river.Saturday, April 2d.     To town this afternoon with many last things and visits to make - tea at Shepheards - Carter dined with us - we leave tomorrow.Thursday, April 7th.	Venice.     We left Cairo on the morning of the 3rd at 11 o’clock - and reached Port Said about 4 o’clock.  Mr. Carter came with us - we had to wait for the mail until the next day at 9 o’clock P.M.  Had the most lovely crossing ever known - arriving at Brindisi last evening, about 9 o’clock.  It was midnight before we got off - reaching Bologna for tea, and Acri by evening.  we are now in our old rooms at the Britannia.  The crossing was the very best we ever made.Page 92Friday, April 7th.     We went out this morning to Salvadores and Barozzi’s - then to the San Marco.  It is undergoing extensive repairs - some say that it will be necessary to renew the foundations - a large part of the nave is shut off.  In the afternoon to Palazzo Capella to see the Bensons.  Found him very ill and suffering though he was sitting in his chair - very sad.Saturday, April 8th.     I went again this morning and stayed a long time with the Bensons.  Before coming home went into the garden - full of spring beauty and growth.  It is sad to see the riant beauty of a garden, when those who cared for it, and loved it, are gone from it never to return.Sunday, 5th in Lent - April 9th.     To the Frari this morning which we found filled with scaffolding - were able to see the great Mantegna.  Then I went to the Pallazo di Capello.  Poor Mr. Benson apparently very low - did not see him as he was in bed under the influence of opiates.  Sat some time with Mrs. Benson.  Cold weather and high winds.  Mr. Newberry arrived today - to arrange with Theodore about the “Find” publication, as he is going to write a description of the contents of the tomb.  He is staying here with us.  Mr. Nash dined with us, and we dined in the big dining room which we never did before.  The music was really delightful.Page 93Monday, April 10th.     To the Bensons this afternoon, and found him better.  I went into his room, found him sitting up in bed, and looking brighter. It is sad that great hall and those great rooms with all their pretty things, and those two old people fading out of life!Tuesday, April 11th.     At the Academia and St. Marco again.  Nettie, Newberry, Theodore and I went to have tea with the Johnsons.  Their rambling, beautiful old place is in better order than it was last year - and in spite of the rain yesterday and that of last night, we walked about the garden, which was a fairy land of blossoming trees.  Nettie and I stopped at the Palazzo Capello on our way home.  Mr. Benson still better.Wednesday, April 12th.     Home this morning - Mr. Newberry and I went to say goodbye to the Bensons.  Found him sitting up and quite bright.  Prince Hohenloke came in and we left him there.  Mr. Nash dined with us.Thursday, April 13th.     Jean, Mr. Newberry, Alice and I went to San Marco this morning.  Mr. and Mrs. Johnstone arrived just after breakfast to see the shawabti and photographs of the tomb.  And we were all off at noon for Milan.  Mr. Nash came to say goodbye.Page 94Palm Sunday, April 16th.     Hotel Cavour - Milan.     	We had a perfectly charming ride over here on Thursday afternoon.  The country so green and smiling - all the people working in their vineyards and fields - and above all the snowy peaks of the Alps, and great masses of dark blue and white clouds about them.  It was nice being in Milan again, and at this best of hotels, where we are so at home.  We are in our old rooms; and found the pretty table ready in our sitting room, with the best dinner we have had in many a month.  The next morning we all went to the Brera, and after lunch Newberry went off and Cigala arrived from Turin.  Yesterday morning we spent at the Paldo-Pezzoli.  It was good to see our old favourites again.  In the afternoon Theo, Nettie, Cigala and I went to the Castello, which they have been much restoring these past 2 years.  It is quite a wonderful place, as building - old fortress, castle etc.  They are rebuilding and restoring on exactly the old lines.  A store of beautiful things to see, especially the recumbent figure of Caston le Foix on his tomb by Bambaja.  Today we went to Bergamo, in spite of the threatening weather.  We took 2 hours going, and the same time coming back, in a veritable omnibus train.  We took our lunch with us, and ate it immediately on our arrival just outside the station, under a little arbour covered by Wistaria vines just coming into bloom.  Then we went to the Motalli gallery and while there the storm began.  It was impossible to get up to the hill town - and we drove back to the station in a pouring rain, reaching home with thankful hearts in time for tea.  The first night of our arrival we went to “La Scala” to hear Page 95Don Pasquale given.  We had one of the best loges in the house - the orchestra was immense - the scenery wonderful - but what a performance to call musical - and how strange to discover that so many people live who can take Italian Opera seriously!  Theo and I went to the back of the box, piled the cushions behind us - and I took a quiet nap.  It was 12 o’clock when the ballet began, and as the girls were wild to see it, Theo and I came home, and sent the carriage back for them.  The next night they all went again - but I declined and stayed at home.Monday, April 17th.     Morning at Ambrosiana and Brera.  While we were at breakfast this morning Jones brought the news, that the railway strike which has been talked of for some time had been declared this morning - and that for the present no R.R. tickets would be sold.  But this evening the accounts are more encouraging and we hope to get off tomorrow morning, Theo and Alice for Dresden - the rest for Florence.  Walked in the Park with Theo.Tuesday, April 18th.     Theo and Alice got off this morning - not knowing if they could get through or not, but I had a telegram from him at Verona this afternoon, saying they were all right.  They breakfasted at 6:30 - and I came in to have a cup of coffee with them - and just then received a telegram from the Grande Bretagne, Florence, saying “impossible to give rooms until Thursday”.  Greatly disappointed - but have since heard that Page 96no train for Florence had gone out.  They are making a great effort to send the through trains - the station and even some parts of the roads are guarded by soldiers.  Cigala made 3 attempts today to get back to Turin - saying goodbye soon after breakfast - found no train going - came back for lunch - said goodbye again - returned again, went to drive with us, and had tea, and then made his final adieux.  We spent most of the morning in the charming little park near here.Wednesday, April 19th.     The day has been cold and stormy - Nettie and Jean spent the morning in the Brera.  We hope to get off tomorrow.  But are most snug and comfortable at this best of hotels.  Several people have arrived in automobiles, not being able to get through by rail.  Milan is such a hot bed for anarchism, that I would as soon not be in it at this time.Good Friday, April 21st.     Hotel Grande Bretagne - Florence.     	We made a successful journey yesterday from Milan - we had a guard of soldiers on our train, there were soldiers in the stations, at the cross-roads, in control of the sentry boxes, switches, tunnels, etc. so that we probably made the safest journey of our lives.  The strike is about over - it was never one of wages - but aimed against railway reforms, which the Gov. is instituting - and the Gov. has met the strikers with such prompt measures, that it has collapsed.  The rain poured all day - we were an hour and a half late - and found my Page 97poor, dear Mary had been waiting nearly two hours.  We found our rooms ready - as familiar as possible - Julia and Francis in attendance - and we have spent most of the day with Lizzie and the girls at the Villino.  Everything seems very quiet in Florence, as no church bells, one of the characteristic features of Florence, are rung during Passion week.Saturday, April 22d.     A pleasant day - Nettie took Jean to the Duomo this morning to see the ridiculous ceremony of the “scoppic” -while Mary and I had a charming ride and visit in the Cascine.  They all lunched here, and we went to tea with the Hagemeyers, in their new appartment and saw the new baby.  Mary came back to dinner.  In the evening I went to Mrs. Bend’s sitting room, just above ours, to see her and Beatrice.Easter Sunday, April 23rd.     Lunched with Lizzie today as it was her birthday - and stayed the day with her.Monday, April 24th.     Lizzie and the girls to lunch - Nettie and I, taking Amelie, went to the Bargello.  Mrs. Bend, Beatrice and Miss Whitney spent the evening with us.Tuesday, April 25.     Bank, shopping and visiting.  Nettie to lunch.  Home with her for tea.Page 98Wednesday, April 26th.     Jean and I with Amelie drove up to the Rose Garden - and came home laden with roses - most of which I carried up to the Villino where we stayed all day.  The Bends and Miss Whiting again in the evening.  They go off to-morrow to Ravenna and Venice.Thursday, April 27th.     At home this morning - Lizzie and Nettie came to lunch, and we went for tea to the Newmans - a charming visit to a perfectly charming and artistic home - stayed disgracefully late.Friday, April 28th.     jean and I drove out to I Tatti this morning to lunch - the day was warm and wholly charming - and the world most beautiful.  Berensen looks better than he has done for 3 years.  His nice sister Senda was there, looking ill and worn.  We sat out under the cypresses and had coffee and talked, until it was time to drive home.  In the evening we dined at the Villino.  Mr. Cust and Mr. Burton were there - and a beautiful little dinner.  Mary able to be up - but looking a bit tired.Saturday  April 29th.     Home all the morning writing letters.  Jean and Nettie shopped a little and drove up to San Miniato.  All went to a pretty and elaborate tea at Miss Bennetto.Page 99Sunday, April 30th.     I have been the whole day with Mary at the Villino.  She is much better.  Jean and I called on Mrs. Hagemeyer on our way home.  Lovely weather.Monday, April 31st.     Mary and I did some shoppings this morning - and all the family came to lunch and stayed to tea.Tuesday, May 1st.     I and the girls drove about this morning - went at Theodore’s request to Costantini’s to see David C. about Theo’s pictures.  The place greatly improved and very pretty.  Lizzie and the girls to lunch and we all went to Mr. Custs to tea - and bravely climbed his 97 steps to his interesting appartment, and had an amusing and pleasant visit.Wednesday, May 2d.     A busy morning - Lizzie gave us a charming tea with several pleasant friends - we spent the whole day there - and the little villino looked so pleasant - the sunny rooms, and tiny garden - and Rex and his antics.  I am so pleased that they have taken a cottage at Vallambrosa for the summer and will go up the 1st of June with Rex and the two maids and have their own home.  Nettie and Mary came home with us, as Mr. Cust and Harry Burton were coming to dine.  Harry brought his beautiful photographs to show us - and we had a nice and merry evening.Page 100Thursday, May 3rd.     I had a letter from Theodore this morning saying we would find him in Paris when we arrived.  We all went to the Academia this morning - then to the Rose garden - and brought home some lovely roses.  Mr. and Mrs. Newman and Lizzie to lunch, and the girls as well as Harold Smith and Bob Ream came to tea.  Threatening weather.Monday, May 8th.     Paris - Hotel Westminster.     	Our last 2 days in Florence were very busy - the girls came early - Nettie and I went to the Uffizzi, and I saw my favourites - and two charming recent acquisitions “Madonna adoring the Infant Christ” ascribed to Filippino Lippi - which seems to suggest more the manner of both Botticelli and Fra Lippo Lippi - and a rare picture by the Umbrian master, B. Caporali, a Holy Family - with background in gold, and lovely colouring and expression.  The new Director Ricci, who has done such good work in Milan and other cities in reorganizing and rearranging the picture galleries, is now engaged in evolving order and sequence into the long neglected Uffizi - and it already shows marked improvement.  We walked about the corridors, and looked at the views from those lofty windows, as well as the pictures, and went out on the great roof of the Loggia dei Longi, which is going to be made into a kind of roof garden.  We found ourselves almost on a level with the Palazzo Vecchio tower, and just under it.  Then we walked through the gallery to the Pitti, and so home.  In the afternoon Smith and Ream came to the Hotel, and we all Page 101drove to the Villino for tea.  Jean and I stayed to dinner - and we hated to come away and say goodbye to the sweet little house.  Saturday dawned cold and stormy - we had the carriage and Mary went with me to the bank - and to the English Bakery to get some things for our tea basket on the train.  Lizzie and the girls to lunch - and the latter went in the omnibus with us to the station.  Harry Surton came also.  We had a very comfortable journey here - two compartments in the train-de-luxe - one Jean and Amelie occupied - and the other I had to myself, a connecting door made them pleasant.  I did not pull down the blinds of my windows - so that the dawn wakened me - and I piled my pillows and sat up in bed to see the dawn come upon the snow covered peaks - a lovely scenery all day - until as we drew near Paris the rain began - and was pouring when we arrived.  Found Theodore installed in our old quarters, with a bright fire - and after dinner we sat talking late.  Today has been cold, cloudy and damp. We have been busy - as we have only 5 days here.Saturday, May 13th.     We are quite ready to go over to London tomorrow.  it has been rather nice here - not too much shopping and dressmaking.  We have seen a good deal of Cecile de Lagarde - we had hoped to take her home with us, but her father is obdurate - but she is going over to London with us.Thursday, May 18th.     Our journey over from Paris the other day was a really pleasant Page 102one.  Daisy Busk came with us.  They sail on the 20th.  The weather was good - the channel boat “Le Nord” was big and comfortable.  The 3 girls stayed on deck and enjoyed it.  Theo and I took possession of the cabin de luxe, he took one sofa and I the other and slept all the way over.  We had an enormous number of passengers, as the Brindisi train was just in, and such an amount of luggage, that we were 2 hours late leaving Dover.  It was nice to be in England once more.  We reached our hotel of last year, Bucklands, in time for dinner which was served in our large pleasant sitting room.  Everard Fielding came in the evening, as pleasant as ever, and looking very well.  Monday the racket began.  The girls and I went to Nicolls, and ordered our tailor gowns.  In the afternoon we all went to the wonderful Wallace Collection, and came home really tired.  Mr. Newberry dined with us and we had a nice evening.  We find Mr. Carter has gone out to Egypt, and Newberry goes himself in June.  Tuesday we spent the whole of the morning at the South Kensington Museum - and came home more dead than alive.  Poor Jean had such a headache that she had to take to her bed, where she stayed.  Such a disappointment too, as Fielding was dining here, and we were going to the Court Theatre to hear one of Bernard Shaw’s plays - “John Bulls other Island”.  It was admirably done, and very amusing.  Wednesday Jean was all right again - we were driving all the morning - very bright weather, but cold, gusty winds.  Mr. Newberry came to lunch, and after Mr. Rathbone, bringing me most lovely roses.  In, all the afternoon.  Today we have been shopping and driving, lunched with Sir WIlliam Farrer - he looking so well - and so bright Page 103and charming - but grown quite deaf.  Col. Watson was there.  Gaspard Farrer dined with us - also Mr. Cary-Elwes and Lady Winifred - who took Jean and Cécile on to a concert at a private house.Friday, May. 19.     At home all the morning.  We all went to the Court Theatre again to the Matinée of “You never can Tell” by Bernard Shaw. Nettie and I heard it there three years ago - an amusing, charming play.  Not so strong in character representation as “John Bulls other Island”.  Major, and Mrs. Wilson made us a visit this evening.  She sails tomorrow for America.Saturday, May. 20.     A cold rainy day.  Theo and Cécile went to the British Museum and Theo came home pale and weary.  Fielding came at 3:30 - then he and Theo went out and the girls and I for a drive in the Park - the rain having stopped.  But we found a cold, high wind.  Soon after we got home, and were comforting ourselves with hot tea, Mr. Rathbone called, and made one of his charming visits.  Theo brought Fielding back to dinner, and they are now looking at the Egyptian photos.Sunday, 4th After Easter.     I went to the First Church of Christian Science this morning in Sloam Terrace and found the same large reverent congregation that I found there last year.  it is really bitterly cold today.  Mr. Field-Page 104ing came back with the girls from the R. Catholic and stayed to lunch.  He took Cécile to a concert at Queen’s Hall this afternoon, and both of the girls to the first performance of Bernhard Shaw’s play at the Court Theatre, “Man and Superman”.  I went to see Miss Farrer this afternoon - such a pleasant visit, - the old fashioned rooms looking so bright this cold day, with bright fires and lovely flowers.Monday, May 22nd.     Shopping and National Gallery this morning - driving in afternoon, and dined with the Rathbones this evening - and are just home - 1:30 A.M.  Every one else is gone to bed - where I ought to be.  A charming dinner - I sat between Mr. Rathbone and Percival Landon-- who was the special correspondent of the “Times” with the young husband expedition to Thibet.  There were also “Percy Granger” a clever rising musical pianist and two lesser lights - and they gave us some lovely music after dinner.  He has the most extraordinary facility with the piano, and makes most novel and unheard of harmonies.  Lady Agnes de Trafford came in during the evening, and about 11:30 Lady Winifred and Mr. Cary Elwes arrived, and he sang two or three delightful songs.  Theodore was quite scandalized with our late hours.Tuesday, May 23.     Lady Winnie came to take the girls to the National Portrait Gallery.  In the afternoon we went down to Sargents Studio and had tea with him and were so interested in him and his belongings.  A sincere, Page 105simple, and unaffected man - with no aim at artistic fittings in his studio.  Mr. and Mrs. Rathbone were there.  This evening we have had an entrancing evening at Drury Lane Theatre - Irving as Shylock, and the captivating Mrs. Mathewson as Portia.  A wonderful performance - the setting so fine and perfect - Irving looks very old - and received a real ovation.  The theatre was bitterly cold - all the men wore overcoats - and the women wraps - and we wished for hot water bottles and blankets.Wednesday, May 24.     A very busy day - Robert Trefusis came up from Eton and spent most of the day here.  Theo and I got a quiet hour at the Nat. Gallery, Mr. Rathbone and Newberry to lunch and to tea as well - and this evening we had a rational, charming dinner at the Farrer boys house.Thursday, May 25.     Out all the morning - the girls went off at 12 o’clock with Mr. Rathbone to see Knole-  Elena Rathbone came to lunch - Count Trotti was also here - directly after lunch I took Amelie and went out to Guildford to see Mr. Upton of the Hardy Plant Nursery - and enjoyed myself.  A quiet evening at home.Friday, May 26.     We went out to Oxford today, taking Mr. Rathbone with us, and lunched at Queens with Mr. Sayce.  We saw Magdalene, Christ, New Page 106College and St. Johns - and went down to the river in the afternoon to see the races.  It was such a pretty sight - the day was so warm - the country so lovely - the Thorns all in bloom as well as the chestnuts.  We went to the Baliel barge to see the boats - and had tea there - then back to Magdalen to hear the Service of Song, but were just one minute and a half too late, as we found the door of the chapel obdurately closed; so we went back to the Randolph and stayed until it was train time.  We had a saloon carriage going and coming, and had dinner baskets for coming home - as we were not due until 9 o’clock.  Principal Rhys and his wife, and a nice fellow Mr. Hodgson were at the lunch.Saturday, May 27.     Shopping this morning - Jean went with Mr. Fielding at 12, on the river for a row.  Theo, Cecile and I drove out to Weinbledon Common to take tea with Sir William Preece and his daughters.  After getting beyond Putney we came to the Common which I had never seen.  It lies so high and is so big, that the air was delightful - coming over miles of heather and gorse.  Sir William has a charming old fashioned house, with room after room looking on the garden - and the house filled with rare Persian things - arms, stuffs, tiles etc.  The greater part of his collection is at South Kensington.  Met some pleasant people - lovely drive home.  Fielding came in late this evening.Sunday, May 28.     Cecile and I went for a drive in the Park before I went to Page 107church - which was held in the Aeolian Hall, Bond St.  One of the prettiest and simplest concert halls I ever saw - and a very large congregation of the best class.  This is the Second Christian Science Church.  Everard Fielding came to lunch after which we took the girls to Kew, and Theo and I drove first to call on Mrs. Sandwith, whom we found at home looking very well and pretty.  Then to Miss Lulling - and then about Regent Park.  After we got home, Gaspard and Harry Farrer called.  Fielding again to dinner, and he and Theo are now playing chess.11