PAGE 134 (next page is duplicate 134)Nov. 19. 1997.It is now 6 days since we sailed from New York at 10 A.M. on Nov. 13 on the Kaiser Wilhelm II. Montgomery Beal, Mrs. Davis’s nephew with us. We have had a pleasant passage though very little sun - pleasant passengers too, many friends and acquaintances. Mrs. Julie Ward Howe, with her daughter Mrs. John Elliot, and her husband.  Mrs. Norman, with her daughter Mable, and son Reginald from Newport. Countess Freufanellé-Cibo of Foligno - introduced to us by Madame Cortazzo.  Mrs. Wilson of Gibraltar, who crossed with us last year - a bride then, with her husband, Capt. Stewart Wilson of the Royal Engineers - and Mrs. Robert Shaw Oliver with her 3 girls from Albany, going out to Florence for the winter. So that it was like a reception all the way over.  Every afternoon they all came to tea with me in the saloon - and every evening Mrs. Julia Ward Howe played whist with me and Theodore and Mr. Whitehead, who with Mrs. W. is also on board, and a very good game the delightful old lady played. We have with us also, Hendrick Anderson, the young sculptor, going back to Rome, who has been with us so much this summer. Today we passed the Azores - not keeping to the south as we did last year, when we passed the large and important island of San Miguel. Today we passed in between Fayal and San Jose - then past St. George, and along the beautiful island of Tanicera, San Miguel being just visible away to the south and east. We have very comfortable rooms and the ship is clean and comfortable - though she rolls even in these smooth seas. She has the nickname of Rolling Billy.PAGE 134  (duplicate of the above page)Nov. 19. 1997.It is now 6 days since we sailed from New York at 10 A.M. on Nov. 13 on the Kaiser Wilhelm II.  …......................  duplicate page 134PAGE 135Monday. Nov. 22.Arrived at 9:30 this morning - bright but with heavy squalls of wind.  Capt. Wilson came out to meet his wife - and the sea was so rough, she went off in the tug with all the others.  I did not go, as past experience at Gibraltar in the rain, warned me not to venture.  So the Countess and I wandered about and talked and grew weary enough before the others came back late for lunch.Naples.  Nov. 25.Arrived at 7 A.M. the Mediterranean proving as quiet as the Atlantic.  Came to the Grand Hotel, where we found Lizzie, Nettie and Mary waiting for us.  After a comfortable breakfast  before the fire in our pleasant sitting room overlooking the bay and Vesuvius, we sat about and talked and pleasantly idled away the hours, rejoicing to be on land once more.  Vesuvius, after his late activity, is again quiet.  The Countess came to lunch with us, and the Olivers.  Then we all said goodbye, and they went off to Florence.Dec. 1. Wednesday.Our days in Naples have been rather dull.  Weather bad.  Lizzie with a bad cold - Mary really ill with one - and Nettie just recovering from a severe attack of influenza.  Anderson went up to Rome 2 days ago.  We enjoyed going to the sculpture gallery of the museum with him.  Lizzie and Mary took last nights train to Florence.  Mrs. Taylor suddenly appeared this afternoon, having arrived from Genoa on the Königen PAGE 136Luise - came to the boat about 5 - found her crowded - I was bored - comfortable deck rooms - Mrs. Bend, Amy and Beatrice joined us last night.Thursday. Dec. 2d.Passed Sicily this morning -Aetna covered with snow - cold wind blowing - sea calm as a river.Saturday. Dec. 4.We will reach Port Said tonight.  The Königen Luise has beautiful great decks - but she is tremendously over crowded with passengers for Egypt.  About 100 for Port Said - we have decided some of us to go to Ismaelia - the Normans and Bends never having seen the canal.Cairo - Shepheards Hotel.Tuesday - Dec. 7.We reached Port Said Saturday at midnight - the usual fracas and disagreeable features of coaling all night.  Ports, doors, everything closed - noise etc. - to my thinking there is nothing gained by going on to Ismailia - better solve the unpleasant problem by quitting the steamer at any hour she arrives, and accepting anything that can be found at Port Said. As it was, we slept little were very slow in getting through the canal next day, sticking several times, and did not reach Ismailia until 7:30 - waited some time for the tender, and did not land before 9:30 - a passable supper - and bed rooms - Nettie and PAGE 137I in one room - my bed so chill and damp, that I have suffered much from it - we reached Cairo at 6 P.M. and were soon installed in our old corner rooms to the north - feeling very much at home.  We drove down to the boat this morning - finding her almost in sailing condition.  There remain however, all the stores to be unpacked, and a thousand little things to be arranged and settled.Sunday after Christmas.Dec. 26. Beduin.At last we are settled in this our delightful little winter home - and it would be entirely perfect had I only my dear Toby here!  How glad I am to quit all that entourage at Shepheards, I cannot even express to myself!  I have had 10 days of real illness - several days in my bed.  In all my life I have never been so ill - the winter is a bad one in Egypt - cold - high winds - and little sunshine.  We kept a steady fire in our sitting room.  Everyone has a cold.  Mrs. Bend and Mrs. Norman half the time in their beds.  We found our faithful Mohammed Salah waiting for us at the station when we arrived, and Abdul and Ibrahim.  We had our Xmas this morning, and gave the men all around, shawls and knives and cigarettes - good woolen underclothes for Rais Fuli, Abdul, Mattar, and Ibrahim.  Theodore had bought for Rais Fuli in Paris last spring a first class field glass - and has his name put in gilt letters on the case - and I had extra things for Abdul, Mattar and Ibrahim.  The men had - sheep - and I went into town this afternoonPAGE 138to find all the shops closed.  Last evening being Christmas night, Mrs. Bend and the girls dined with us.  The first dinner of our new cook - and a very good dinner it was - quite admirable - they were quite impressed.Monday, Dec. 27Monty and I paid a hurried visit to Hatoun’s and Parvis’s shops this morning, and hurried back - we got off at 12:30 in a very good wind and reached Bedrashein in less than 3 hours - have dawdelled away much time in fear of our big sail, which proves too big.  Theodore has decided to have it made smaller tomorrow, and to kill two birds with one stone by visiting Sakkarah, which we did not intend doing until we come down - as I am not now very fit.  So Rais Fuli took the 6 o’clock train to Cairo to fetch the sail makers.  Cold.Tuesday, Dec. 18.They all made an early start for Sakkarah this morning - even Jones and Amilie.  I sent Amilie as she had never seen it.  They all condoled with me on going off, because I was to be left all alone for the day.  But after they got away, I smiled and began to enjoy myself!  I mended 2 sponge bags - I explored the little store closet under the stairs, arranged and consensed it - put in order the linen closet and my dress closet, re-arranged Abdul’s sideboard for him - the bookcase and all the small things - and after a delicious little lunch, with Abdul waiting upon me so quietly and faithfully, I took a book and stretch myself upon the divan in the saloon - where I could neither read or sleepPAGE 139because of enjoying the delicious quiet and repose.  The first quiet day I have had for almost a year!  I enjoyed the occasional bursts of sunshine through the window, across the mossy green carpet, and the big green chair, making a delicate harmony with the line of young wheat growing on the bank - and the palms tossing their branches above.  The Rameses came up from Cairo - on which are Mr. and Mrs. Whitehead - and Mr. W. came over to make me a little visit - reporting Mrs. W. afraid to venture out in the cold, and only 35 passengers.  I asked him why he had not gone to see wonderful Sakkarah, and he said “he thought he would get enough of temples and pyramids before he got out of Egypt”!  Our people came back about 5, raving about their delicious day.  We find our little stoves most comfortable and cheerful - we could hardly exist without them.  All day long, the big sail has been stretched on shore, with the men ripping and cutting - now she is pronounced to be all right and is again in place on the boom.  Every inch of the boat outside and in, was painted last summer, in admirable fashion, making a great improvement in the Beduin.  I never saw more beautiful paint - the tints so perfect - and the finish like porcelain.  We seem now to be quite perfect.Wednesday - Dec. 29.The day began cold, with a south wind which changed to north about one o’clock - and we sailed away until 4 P.M. when it veered to west, and we tied up, after having made 8 miles - the sail proves quite perfect.PAGE 140Dec. 30.  Thursday.We made an early start this morning before 7 - the wind good and strengthening all the time - at 1 o’clock we were driven on a sand bank - but pulled to the anchor and got away and sailed finely until about 6 P.M. when we stopped for the night near Wasta, having made about 33 miles - very cold and windy.  We are going to have a hard time on the river this year I fear, as it is so uncommonly low - and the current is running so strong.  It has rained from time to time today.31 Dec.  Friday evening.We have been sitting about since dinner, talking and reading.  I have been reading aloud in Sayce’s “Egypt of the Hebrews”  then Theodore read from “In Memoriam”.  It is very still and quiet - not a sound to be heard outside - the men all asleep - not a sound - and I intend as I always do, to see the old year out.  It is cold - but no wind - we had a great surprise this morning.  I knew it was very cold, and Jones had come into my room and lighted my little stove, which made a cheerful light in my darkened room, it being hardly past 7 o’clock - when I heard Monty asking if he could come in, that he had something to show me.  So in he came, wrapped in his bathrobe with his hat on, and a little tray in his hand on which was heaped a little pile of snow, or more strictly speaking frost!  He said the decks were white with it - that there was a dense fog, and the extreme cold had turned it to snow, wherever it touched.  All the men were tremendously impressed - only one or two every having seen anything of the kind before.PAGE 141It took the sun a long time to dissipate the fog - but at last the clearest and brightest day we have had since we came, evolved itself - and after a general cleaning and rubbing and drying of the decks, we sailed away in a very light wind which continued until nearly 8 o’clock - when we tied up.  I have been on deck most of the time - air so delicious -dry - and with a real snap of cold in it.  We have made about 12 miles.January 1 - 1898.The New Year dawned cold and dark - when I first looked out of my window, the river was as smooth as a mirror, and the clouds looked like snow.  It was not until after 9 o’clock that the sun came out, and shown fitfully and dimly.  The wind too was fitful - however we sailed as we could until nearly 7 o’clock - the moon being half full.  Passed Beni soef about noon and cannot be far from Fashon tonight - making about 11 miles.2d Sunday after Christmas.  Jan. 2.Have made 48 miles 0 and are now lying 2 miles south of Sheik Fadl.  Still cold.  The other afternoon I saw a large fox running along the waters edge - apparently disturbed at our nearness.  However by the time Jones got his gun out he disappeared over the bank.PAGE 142Jan. 3.  Monday.We made 30 miles - starting at 7:30 and pulled up at Minieh at one o’clock.  All of the rest went into the town for our mail and some shopping.  The wind was so strong and the dust and sand so filled the air, that I stopped at home.  Even the deck was impossible - and the wind increasing we have not moved.Tuesday.  Jan. 4.Started soon after 6:30 this A.M. a clear, brilliant morning, the wind good increasing to strong.  We sailed splendidly without a break until 6 o’clock or thereabouts, making 55-1/2 miles.  The air was softer, and the sun bright, the afternoon delicious.  I was on deck from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.Wednesday. 5 Jan.Still cold, with light north wind growing stronger - we made 6 miles, when in the first great turn of the beginning of the Abufedah Mts.  we were obliged to furl our sail and anchor.  The steamer Tewfik, with Mr. Cornelius Vanderbilt passed up - giving us a salute as he passed.  We tracked later, for about a mile to a good place for the night.  Passed Manfalout about noon, and altogether made 9 miles.  Cold with a little rain this evening. PAGE 1436 Jan. Thursday.A cold day - the morning very quiet until nearly noon, when we pulled up our stakes and started among the crowd of working boats, only to find we had left one of our sailors on shore, who had been sent to find some vegetables.  An exciting time for a few moments, when we finally got under way with a fair wind increasing to strong - and we did some splendid and difficult sailing - it was like yachting.  We saw the minarets of Assiut all the afternoon appear and disappear - but as usual seemed to get no nearer to them.  After we tied up, the wind began to blow, and rain poured smartly for half an hour.  The sailors made a great row on deck, getting the furniture together and covered and the awnings up.  Made 18 miles.7 Jan. Friday.A beautiful day - almost warm - and almost like Egypt.  Light winds and some tracking brought us early in the afternoon to Assiut.  The Nitassis passed down.  Got a big mail of papers and letters - and had, for the first time some positive information in regard to the sudden move of troops from Cairo to the Sudan.  It was at first reported that the emergency was so great, that most of Cook’s steamers would be required, as he has the contract with Government to carry troops - but it seems that was an exaggeration.  They go by rail to Nag Hamadi, and then are shipped.  An officer told Theodore today, that the finishing of the railway between Nag Hamadi and Assouan, was to be pushed on to rapid finish.  Nettie and I took a drive into Assiut this afternoon.  APAGE 144very large and growing town - especially the European quarter - near the river, and American Mission College.  We waited some time at the gate of a garden, where Abdul, and a kind of rais belonging to the carriage, a mere bundle of rags, with a smiling yellow face above, who seemed to be the elder brother of the two wretched little horses, went to get me some flowers.  We thought we had never seen so many varieties of humanity as passed and repassed continually - with many it would have been hard from appearance to have drawn the line between the beast and the human.  The Ramesis the Third came to the landing near us, and a small Gage steamer, with Prince Henri de Bourbon and party on board.  We are having splendid nights - the moon just full.  Made 10 miles today.Assiut.  8 Jan. Saturday.Still here - having devoted the day to a general cleaning - to getting something done to our oven - to doing a big wash - Nettie and I took another drive this morning - into the town, and making the circuit of it.  It is a holiday - being the 8th anniversary of the accession of the Khodive.  The town was therefore crowded - and we drove through solid masses of turbaned humanity.  We had no one with us but our driver - but we did not meet with the slightess rudeness - though it was as well perhaps that we did not understand all that was said to us.  The moon makes such beauty, rising above the splendid palm and scent groves, that line the shore of the river opposite Assiut.PAGE 145First Sunday after the Epiphany.9th Jan.We have had the warmest day of the year - and a very still one too - but have made Aboutig where we are not lying, 15 miles from Assiut - Theodore and Monty walked into the town, although it was almost dark when we tied up - and said it seemed very clean and charming.  It always looks inviting, with its 2 handsome twin minarets showing above the trees.  Made 15 miles.10 Jan. Monday.We had slipped along under light winds today, until we are within a short distance of Tahtah, and suppose we have made 25 miles.  Warmer - and splendid moonlight nights.Tuesday, 11 Jan.We are lying at Sohag - after a fine day of difficult sailing - beginning about 10 o’clock.  Very difficult bends of the river - we turn and turn upon our path - made 28 miles.  Sohag is on a hight bank with its handsome river front with its very good houses; looks quite unique for Egypt.  We will wait here for the man who has been sent up from Cairo, with the new wash bowl for my room.Akmim.  12 Jan.We came the 5 miles from Sohag this afternoon, having waited all day for the plumber to finish his work in my room.  We went for a PAGE 146walk after breakfast, and seeing a little dahabeah flying the American flag, and hearing from one of our sailors that it was a “Hakim”, we thought it might be some of the people of the American Mission School, as we know they sometimes go out in this way - and wishing much to talk to them, we went down to call.  But we found the “Hakim” was a dentist with a very Hebrew name, and his card bore the title of dentist to the Khodive.  Theodore, asked him if he would like to see our boat, thereupon he came, bringing with him a most respectable citizen of Sohag, who he introduced as one of the “old Egyptian nobles” - whatever that might be.  He then asked if he could bring the Mudir of the district in the afternoon - and about 3 o’clock they came, in some state.  The Mudir was very well dressed in European fashion - and spoke admirable English - had a pleasant polished manner - and seemed much interested in the boat.Belliana, 13 Jan.Had a good sailing day - the wind very strong at times.  Struck a sand bank sharply - and had some difficulty in getting off.  Passed Monshieh and Girgeh - the day very cold - with high wind.Nag Mamadi. 14 Jan.A fine warm day - wind light - reached this place at 4 o’clock - found the R.R. bridge closed - and after pulling up, heard that it would not open again today.  Theodore and the rest went for a walk - and met and talked with the Engineer of the bridge - an Englishman - who PAGE 147said it was entirely in the hands of the Government lately - as trains were running all the times, carrying troops to Assouan and the front.  They saw a large barge with horses, and about 5 camels, and ammunition cars, waiting for the Lancashire regiment that comes up tomorrow.  The bridge opens at 6 in the morning, and we hope to get through at once.  Made 18 miles.Saturday, 15 Jan.Got through the bridge this morning at 8 o’clock by towing - arrangements there very good.  A strong north wind was too much for us, and we had to stop sailing long before noon, and tied up to the bank.  About half past 5 we started and slowly moved along in a light wind for 2 miles, when we stopped - judging we had made ruing the day 10 miles.2d Sunday after Epiphany.  16 Jan.High wind in morning - laid up most of the day - sailed at 4 o’clock for an hour some 3 miles below Keneh - warm and pleasant.  Made 17 miles.Monday, 17 Jan.Started early - light wind and tracking made Denderah at noon.  The day warm and delicious.  Rode out to the Temple after lunch.  My new saddle a great success.  We had excellent donkeys and enjoyed the ride immensely.  Flinders Petrie is excavating near Denderah.  We could see PAGE 148the dust of the excavations - and the comfortable looking house he has built there.  As we reached the river again, we saw the Isis with an English flag passing - and a few moments after, the Alma appeared, and we are lying just behind her tonight 5 miles above Keneh.Tuesday, 18 Jan.  Luxor.We reached Luxor at 6:30 this evening, having made a fine run of 44 miles.  A rather exciting day too, as the Isis was just ahead, the Alma at our heels, and the Gazelle behind her.  The wind was so light, it was hardly a zephyr and we stole along by the town like a ghost - and came into our old place just under the Castle.Wednesday, 19 Jan.We have a very good plan to lie - in a little cove just under the Castle - where no one can pull in ahead of us.  The Alma lies, above, around the corner - and the Gazelle behind us.  The Zenet-el Nil, with her owner M. Goliniescheff, the Hyksos, with the Shephards - and the Gamilla flying the German flag, are in port.  Luxor looks cold, and quiet Achmed was waiting with his donkeys this morning, and we had just started, when we met Mr. and Mrs. Whitehead who are on the Ramesis, walking down to see us.  Se we dismounted and walked back with them - as Mrs. W. had not seen the boat, and they were to leave for Cairo, at noon.  Then we walked back to the Luxor Hotel with them - there mounted our donkeys, Theodore and I, as Nettie and Monty were visiting the LuxorPAGE 149temple.  We rode out towards Karnak, but it was too late to visit the temples, and stopping for a moment at the Hotel, we got home just in time for lunch.  I stayed at home in the afternoon - enjoying our delightful deck, and the matchless and unique view across the stretch of the river, and the plain beyond, of the mountains.  All day, the river has been so smooth, that the mountains with their soft, yellow pink have been reflected in it.  Mr. James Stokes called late in the afternoon.  He is one of the unfortunate passengers on the Rameses the Great who were unexpectedly disembarked here for several days, while the steamer was ordered forward to pull off some barges aground, full of stores and ammunition for the army, and to tow them to Assouan.Thursday, 20 Jan.This afternoon we all went to the Races - which were sufficiently amusing - saw the Vanderbilts who are here on their steamer the “Tewfik” and met unexpectedly Florence Taylor - who with her mother are up the river with the Thubrons in the Indiana, of the Anglo-American line.  They ( the Taylors) came afterwards to the boat, with Sir John Scott, and we asked Mrs. T. and Florence to come back and dine with us - which they did, we sending the felucca for them.  They were enchanted with our excellent dinner, poor starved things - a merry evening.  They said for Nice, Feb. 12.Friday, 21 Jan.A delightful afternoon at Medinet Habu.  The temple always soPAGE 150interesting is now swept and almost garnished - and completely excavated.Saturday, 22 Jan.Theodore and Monty went to Karnac this morning - Nettie and I in the felucca to the German Cousuls, to see his antiquities.  In the afternoon we stayed at home for a quiet reading on deck, and Theodore and Monty went to Der-el-Bahri - the air misty - and slight clouds everywhere.  Late in the afternoon we went to return a visit to the Hyksos - and also to call on the ladies (4 of them) on the Alma.  Miss Broderick, whom I was very anxious to meet is one of them - and we fell to talking at once on the Egypt Exploration Society’s affairs.3d Sunday after Epiphany.  23 Jan.This afternoon Nettie, Monty and I went up to the Castle to call - and after we got home, Miss Broderick and Miss Morton came to tea - and young Cutting.24 Jan. Monday.This morning Nettie and I rode to Carnac - but unfortunately forgot our tickets and came home - stopping at the American Mission book store, for the new Baedeker - Mr. and Mrs. Huhatt came to tea - and Miss Broderick and Miss Morton to dinner.  A pleasant evening.  Ramadan began today.PAGE 151Jan. 25. Tuesday.M. and Mme. Insinger came this afternoon, and then sent down some beautiful flowers - Miss Dickson and Miss Kilburn from the Alma came to tea.  The start for Assouan tomorrow morning.Jan. 26. Wednesday.A cold wind blowing all day - Mr. Huhatt came to play chess with Theodore, and to stay to luncheon - after luncheon, as we were having coffee, Mr. Somers-Clarke came in, having just arrived from El-Kab with Sir John Scott in his steamer.  A pleasant visit - he telling about his new excavations at Kom el-Ahmar, opposite El-Kab, where they are finding tombs of great antiquity.  He described a hawk’s head and body in bronze, of finest workmanship.  He has come for 2 days at El-Bahari.  This evening there is a real tempest going on - and additional ropes have been put out to the anchors - and it is cold.Thursday, Jan. 27.A great blow last night - I never knew a harder one here - and for a long time I could not sleep.  Mr. Huhatt again came to play chess - Nettie and I never put our heads out of the boat.  All the canvass and awnings had to come down last night - Miss Shephard and her friend came to tea.  We shall be off tomorrow for Assouan.PAGE 152Friday, Jan. 28.We got away about 9 this morning - but almost immediately the wind grew so strong that we soon took to the bank, and stayed until late in the afternoon - when we again started and made Erment about dark.  Cold.Saturday, Jan. 29.Began tracking this morning at 8 - until we stopped at the Cook landing to get the men we had sent off for milk and fruit.  Then went on tracking for about 2 miles, and at noon began sailing, and brought up tonight at 6:30 5 miles above Esneh - having made 30 miles.  A beautiful sail all the afternoon - part of the time in a crowd of gyassas, laden rails for the railway in the south - some of them with cattle.  I was on deck all day - most lovely sunset effects - warmer, though cold enough.4th Sunday after Epiphany.  Jan. 30. Silsileh.We have had a beautiful sailing day - and have made 52 miles.  Yesterday we left the “Gamilla” lying at Esneh - soon after starting this morning we found her following us - and she is now lying ahead of us, having arrived soon after we did.  Passed the “Gazelle” lying by.  Passed El-Kab about 11 o’clock and Edfou at one o’clock - and pulled up beyond Silsileh at 6 o’clock.  It has been warmer today, and is milder tonight.  I have been on deck most of the day - such lovely colouring - and a sunset of of every colour of the rainbow - etherially delicate.  Our moon isPAGE 153now well on in her second quarter.  The thermometer on my balcony this morning registered 36⁰.Monday. Jan. 31. Assouan.Started about 8 o’clock, and sailed splendidly all day - arriving at 4;30.  The river was so full of gyssas, all laden with railway materials and army supplies, that the sailing was exciting.  Found Assouan so crowded with the same, and all the quay near the R.R. station given up to unloading - even Cook’s landing stage has been moved down by the barracks to avoid the noise and bustle.  We did not know at first where we could land - but at last feeling our way along Elephantine, we passed the Alma, and then the Pocahantus - and pulled in behind the Zenet-el-Nil, at the very beginning of the little sand gesireh - which is now indeed a very considerable island, so low is the river.  However the bank is green with young wheat, and splendid palms above - and we congratulated ourselves, in spite of the fact that the Osiris lies beyond the Zenet - - then a great crowd of gyassas - then the Isis and Gazelle and then the Istar.  Much warmer.Tuesday, Feb. 1st.Went over to the town this morning, and after sending a telegram, and getting our mail, we walked along the now really handsome quay, to the beginning of the barracks - where we found a new building - a Catholic Church and School - we walked into the Church, new and clean, and very good, with its marble floor, and arched roof - and sat down toPAGE 154rest.  Then to the Hotel to read the dispatches - I have never seen Assouan so busy - such crowds of boats, and business of unloading - such extraordinary crowds - much black, black faces.  The long, well built quay now is really handsome - and many good new buildings.  What a change from 10 years ago!  To the Grenfell tombs - I waiting for the rest to clamber up and down, in the felucca with my book.Wednesday, Feb. 2d.This morning Miss Broderick and Miss Morton came for a visit, and invited Nettie and me to dine on Friday evening.  Then we went across the river to the bazaar.  All the things looked rather tame to me.  Met a whole procession of military camels - this afternoon Mr. Sayce called - and as Theodore and Monty were going for a drive, he asked Nettie and me to come to tea.  So when the felucca came back from the other side, we went to the Istar - and had a pleasant visit -tea on deck - then down stairs to see his room, old fashioned boat - 22 ft. wide - while we are only 17-1/2.  His saloon furnished in yellow brocatelle seemed enormous.  We saw some good antiquities - and he showed us in the French Expedition book, the pictures of the temples on Elephantine, which were destroyed by Mohamet Ali to build a palace across the river, of which now no fragments remain.  Invited Prof. Sayce to dine on Saturday.Thursday, Feb. 3d.To Philae this morning - Nettie and I, with Abdul in the train at 9 o’clock.  Found all the Alma party at the station going too.  ThePAGE 155station is rather difficult to get to now, so encumbered is all the territory around with military stores - and with railway materials waiting shipment for the Soudan.  A jolting, rattling three quarters of an hour brought us to Shellal - where there is a military encampment and more supplies - and steamers and barges for shipping them.  I found Little Yemma waiting at the Philae landing - and he soon produced the delightful little Dendowi, not much changed or grown.  Found Mr. and Mrs. Newman in the long colannade  - he painting as usual, and looking very well, both very kind and hospitable, and asked us down to their boat for coffee, and to see his Japanese sketches.  After luncheon Theodore and I went down - and spent a very pleasant hour.  Home in a cataract boat, bring Miss Broderick and Miss Dickson with us.  It was more exciting this descent than I have ever known it.  I suppose because the water is lower than usual.Friday Feb. 4.Very warm all day - and tired with my expedition of yesterday I stayed at home all day.  The rest went off late in the afternoon for a row around the island, and came home complaining of the heat.  Nettie and I went to dine with Miss Broderick on the Alma - and had a charming evening - with much music.  Miss Kilburn playing the violin admirable.  The row down to their boat, and back again to ours in the wonderful moon-light was delightful.PAGE 156 (not numbered)Saturday, Feb. 5.At home all day until the afternoon, when I went with the rest in the felucca in the mountain of the Coptic Dor.  I sat in the boat with my book, while the rest climbed through the hot sand, and found the ruined convent very interesting.  Mr. Sayce dined with us.  He starts down tomorrow.Sunday.  Septuagesima.  Feb. 6.It was so warm this morning that we none of us felt energetic and Theodore proposed that we should sail up to the cataract, and get out on one of the islands.  It was not much of a sail, as there was so little wind.  But on coming to the first rapid water, we stopped at the nearest island of rock and sand, and walked about on the clean, hard sand, rifted over and over by the wind - and broken by huge masses of lovely rose granite.  The Istar and the Zenet el-Nil started down that afternoon.Monday, Feb. 7.Warm and delightful all day.  Did nothing.  All the Alma people came to dine - and after dinner we went on deck to enjoy the wonderful moonlight.  Theodore is growing anxious to get down the river, and talks of going on Thursday or Friday.Tuesday, Feb. 8.The first thing Theodore asked me as he came into breakfast this morning was “do you mind starting down today”.  I said “no”, though I am always reluctant to leave Assouan.  So after breakfast we crossed in the felucca to get our mail, pay a last visit to the bazaar, and send some telegrams, when we got back, we found the awnings being taken down and general preparations for the start.  I wrote a hurried note to Miss Broderick, explaining our sudden change of plan - knowing that they had all gone to Philae for the day.  At 12;30 we were off, and a light south wind springing up we came along right merrily - when the wind failed - the head has been intense - 95⁰ on my back balcony - but that has some reflection.  Pulled up at 7 o’clock just as a sudden, howling wind came up and made our landing very difficult.  Suppose we are about 5 miles from Kom Ombo.  The air is so charged with sand that the moon can just be seen, wan and almost green - and she has lost a little slice off her.  Very warm tonight.Wednesday evening.  Feb. 9.We have only succeeded in making 2 miles today - when the N.W. wind increased so much we were forced to tie up, where we now lie.  Since early this morning the same thick dust laden air of last evening - the sun showing dimly through it, like a pale full moon.  Walking has been impossible - and we have stayed in doors.Thursday, Feb. 10.We came down the 3 miles to Kom Ombo where we now are.  I wakened at 5 this morning, and found we were under way.  After breakfast we went up to the temple, and spent two pleasant hours there - inPAGE 158spite of high wind and the dust of the excavators outside the temple wall.  While we were there the “Horus” came up with a tug, flying the English flag, and pulled up ahead of us.  The views from the temple plateau are so splendid, I never want to come away.  While we were sitting at lunch the “Cheops” appeared with tug, and English flag - but did not stop - and soon after the “Philetus” came sailing up, also with the English flag - and stopped, and next appeared the “Miriam” the Egyptian Museum boat, with a tug, and stopped behind us - so that the settlement is a large one tonight.  We had had a pleasant scheme for taking tea in the temple this afternoon - but the high wind, and all the people from the boats made it impossible.Friday, Feb. 11.We are at a little mail station on the east bank called El-Eglit - about half way between Kom Kombo and Silsileh - and here we have stayed, prisoners of the North wind.  The Osiris is in sight.Saturday, Feb.  12.All day at El-Eglit - a very stormy night - impossible to move - cold again.Sexigesina Sunday.  Feb. 13.Started early this morning, and at 12 o’clock made Silsilis.  Tremendous wind - with some difficulty made a landing on the West bank, and visited the different little shrines and Specs.  Then got away, but PAGE 159were nearly blown upon the rocks, which make this part of the river dangerous - and dropped our anchor just in time to save us.  Finally succeeded in making about a mile where we now are, with the Osiris above us.Monday, Feb. 14.Early start - struggled along until after 9 o’clock, when we tied up - wind blowing hard - and still blows.  Made 4 miles.Tuesday, Feb. 15.Started at 5:30 and stopped before 10 o’clock - wind so strong.  Nettie and I walked along the railway embankment for some distance - but the flying sand and dust we found very disagreeable.  Began rowing about 7 o’clock with the wind falling - and rowed until 8:30.  We have seen the zodiacal light for a long time.Wednesday, Feb. 16.Began rowing at 6 o’clock - I looked out of my window, and saw a smooth water, a rosy, golden flush of dawn, and a waning moon high in the sky, reflected in the water.  Brought up at Edfou at 8 o’clock - and found the Mena (Cook’s boat) with Col. John Hay, our Minister at London, and his party - and 2 other boats.  Started soon after breakfast for the temple - where we stayed about 2 hours, and were back before lunch and off, and have been floating with a little rowing all day until 6:30 when we stopped.  We are about 4 miles from El Kab.PAGE 160Thursday, Feb. 17.Reached El-Kab at 8 o’clock - found the Istar lying in front of the Antah - and while we were seated at breakfast, Mr. Somers-Clarke came in to see us, and to ask us to come to his boat to see the Sacred Hawk he had found at Kom el-Akmar.  After breakfast I mounted a donkey, while the rest walked, into the old fortress and amongst its ruins, and then climbed the great wall 30 ft. or more thick, and I dismounted and walked on it - a rare view of desert, and river, and remains of former human habitation.  Then we went to the Antar and saw the head and crown of the splendid hawk - as large as a big apple, of pure gold with a crown of gold 6 in. high, representing the Osiris feather crown - with eyes of obsidian - the workmanship fine and spirited.  The body which we did not see, is of bronze, and much broken, but can be reconstructed.  Then we were shown in the portico of the little house on shore, what is more interesting historically, a kneeling figure in stone, very crude and archaic, what Mr. S.-C. thinks belongs to the prehistoric time - also found at Kom El-Ahmar, where Mr. Quibell is excavating.  In the afternoon we all rode out to the little temple of Amenophis III in the desert and had tea - we had never seen this pretty and interesting temple which Mr. S.-C. has illustrated and described.  The ride through the desert valley - with the great arid mountains around us, and the evening colours, was something to remember.  Evidences of the water courses, which are sometimes fed by the rains in the mountains were interesting.  Mr. Sayce, and Mr. S.-C. came to dinner - a pleasant evening - talked over the Egypt Exploration Fund Society.PAGE 161Friday. Feb. 18.Left El-Kab at 8 this morning - stopped in a high wind about 11.  Made 10 miles - horrid.Saturday, Feb. 19.Reached Esneh at 9 - having rowed since very early in the morning - Theodore met the American dentist, who gave startling accounts of wind and cold below Luxor.  Made about 20 miles - and are now at Gebelein, 13 miles from Erment.Quinqungesima Sunday, Feb. 20.A day of hard work at rowing - until about 2 o’clock - this obstinate north wind stopped blowing - and in smooth water in a glory of beautiful colouring we came along, arriving at Luxor just after dark.  We found the Osiris lying in our old place, and brilliantly illuminated, fizzing rockets and fireworks - so we hope she is going off tomorrow, and we have pulled in just behind her, and will take her place when she goes.Monday, Feb. 21.Nettie and I walked into town - went to the German Consuls and looked at his curiosities.  Sun warm, and much dirt.  Mr. Huhatt came to play chess with Mr. Davis, and stayed to lunch.  Mr. Insinger called.PAGE 162Tuesday, Feb. 22.We have had up all our flag decorations in honor of the day.  Mr. Varley called.  The Hamilton Fisks just down from Assouan in the steamer came to dine.Wednesday, Feb. 23.The “Olga” with the Ayer family came down this morning and is near us.  They came over at once to call.  The “Alma” also arrived, and went across to the gezireh - and they all came over to see us.  This afternoon we went over to the “Seura” Varley’s boat, to see his Nile sketches.  Theodore bought the 2 best.  Then we went to the “Hyksos”, to have tea with Miss Shepheard.Thursday, Feb. 24.Mr. Varley and Mr. Hooker came over and stayed a long time this morning - and a very pleasant morning it was.  We were asked to the “Alma” for tea, but I did not feel well, and Nettie went alone.  Mr. and Mrs. Huhatt dined with us.Friday, 25 Feb.A quiet morning on deck with my books - it has been hot for days - and grateful the heat is.  Miss Broderick and Miss Morton came to tea - and Mr. and Mrs. Ayer, and the daughter dined with us.PAGE 163Saturday, Feb. 26.“Istar” came in early this morning - Nettie and I went to tea with Mr. Sayce - and the evening being so radiantly beautiful, we went out rowing all of us - and serenaded the “Alma” people.Sunday, Feb. 27.Nettie and I went to church this morning - over to the “Olga” for tea this afternoon with Theodore and Monty - met Mr. Fiske of Florence and Mr. Sayce - as the latter had been asked to dine with us this evening we also asked Mr. Fiske - and had a charming evening.Wednesday, March 2d.Have all been occupied with the Bend family, who arrived on the steamer on Monday - they dined with us that night and last night.  yesterday we all went to Karnak in the morning - heat and dust indescribable, the rest went over to Medinet Habu in the afternoon - I wisely stayed at home.  Mr. Fiske came to tea.  Today all but Nettie, I and Mr. Bend, went to the Tombs of the Kings - we going over in the afternoon to meet them at Der el-Bahri - first visiting Der el-Medinet which I had never before seen - a charming little temple, in its desert gorge - coming home by moonlight - frightful wind and dust.Thursday, March 3d.Yesterday the north wind got up early and strong and has blown without cessation all day.  I did not go out this morning - Mr.PAGE 164Bend and Beatrice to lunch - all went to the races in the afternoon - afterwards Nettie and I to tea with Mrs. Huhatt, and farewell visits to the Castle, and to Miss Shepheards.  Then the Bends came to dine, and all went on donkeys to Karnak by moonlight, except Mr. Bend, Nettie and I, who had not the courage to face the wind and dust.  I have settle many little matters - and we hope to get off tomorrow - the Bends going off in their steamer at 5 o’clock for Assouan.  All the dahabeahs but ours have gone down.Friday March 4.We got off this morning at last - but the wind a little dead against us.  For a time we thought we would have to tie up at Karnak, but we have come along in spite of it to within a mile of Nagada - and are lying in the splendid moonlight at a high bank crowned with the finest palm trees I have ever seen.  The day fine - not too warm - on deck the whole day.Saturday, March 5.The men began rowing at 5 o’clock this morning - and the morning was quiet until about noon when the north wind got up, and still stays up.  It is now 9 o’clock - and we are anchored in mid river.  The night is as bright as day.  We made Keneh at 5 o’clock - and are now only a mile below.  The “Nephtys” passed us this morning with her tug - and soon after we descried the “Mimi” ahead of us - and found them both lying at Denderah.  The “Tik” at the Keneh landing.  The day a littlePAGE 165cool.  Three Dahabeahs have passed up today.  Two of them flying the American flag.  The “Manhattan”, and the “Queen of the Nile”, and this evening the “Stella” went up.  It is a great year for dahabeahs.  Made 25 miles.2d. Sunday in Lent.  March 6.We think we have made about 12 miles - since noon the wind has been strong and north - and the fact that the “Mimi” was so near us, induced our men to work hard in spite of the wind.  The night is beautiful.Monday, March 7.A beautiful quiet day - and we have made 38 miles - no wind, except the lightest breath from the north now and then.  Our men have rowed valiantly for 12 hours - and we are now lying about 6 miles from Ballianeh.  The Mimi has been just behind us until 5 o’clock, when she stopped where the “Nephtys” and “Istar” were lying this side of Nagh Hamadi.  We were just in time for the bridge at the latter place - which was just opening as we came up to it, and were the first to come through there being 3 steamers and the “Mimi” - and in spite of Theodore’s nervousness we got quickly and quietly through.Tuesday, March 8.Arrived at Balliana about 9:30 - found the Olga and the Alma lying near each other.  All their people had gone out to Abydos, and except Miss Broderick - who came over at once to see us.  We started ourselves in half an hour - the morning being cool and cloudy - and although the 2 hours ride out there even with the worst donkeys in the world, was delightful over that wide cultivated country - the wheat quite grown and bearded - oats well formed, and the air full of blossoming clover - yet the coming home was tiring in the extreme - bad donkey boys, unpleasant, natives, and intolerable donkeys, almost spoiled the lovely face of nature.  We could not go to the tomb of Osiris as no one could tell us where it was.  We have been baking bread today for the crew - and get off early tomorrow.  Istar, Mimi, and Nephtys all here.Wednesday, March 9.Began rowing at 5:30 - at 9 o’clock the north wind was so strong we gave it up and went to shore.  It blew a gale until 7 o’clock when we dropped down 3 miles to Girgeh - having made altogether the 8 miles between the two places.  Passed 2 dahabeahs tonight - supposed to be the “Istar” and “Alma”.  The air has been so charged with dust, and still is that the sun looked just as the full moon looks tonight.Thursday, March 10.High wind - made by rowing and drifting about 18 miles - and are very near Akmim.Friday, March 11.Reached Sohag this morning and stopped for the mail.  The Alma PAGE 167just starting out, as we pulled in.  We have made about 5 miles below Sohag - altogether 12 miles.Saturday, March 12.A splendid day - began rowing in a calm at 4:30 A.M. when a gentle south wind came up, and carried us on to our victorious way until we reached Assiut at 7 o’clock P.M. - having made 63 miles.  Olga, Alma and Istar here.  The Ayers came over and spent the evening - but I did not see them being very miserable in my bed.3d Sunday in Lent.  March 13.Have made 6 miles this day.  Left the Alma and Istar at Assiut looking after inscriptions in the Mountains I suppose.  Overtook the Olga, but she has since floated out of sight.Monday, March 14.Another slow day, with north wind.  We have passed Manfalout, making altogether we think about 22 miles.Tuesday, March 15.An exasperating day.  We started early and rowed around the two great turns between Manfalout and half way past the Gebel Abou Feydah chain - and were congratulating ourselves that we were going to pass it, when the north wind became so strong, we had to stop before making the last turn - as these dangerous cliffs come down quite to the PAGE 168water - and here we are still, with the lights of another dahabeah showing a little above us - we do not know what.  Every night now we have 3 or 4 Gaffirs or guards watching us - as this part of the river always has a bad reputation - and there is much excitement now over the sad murder a short time since at Maghagah of Lord Cowper’s valet, who left the dahabeah for the Post Ofice, and missing his way back, was decoyed it is supposed into the sugar cane.  His body was found the same evening robbed - and he had been strangled after a violent struggle.  This has made a great stir - especially as two murders of natives in the same vicinity have since taken place.  The “Mimi” passed us this afternoon in tow of a tug.  Made about 8 miles.Wednesday, March 16.In spite of the wind, we have come bravely along today - and are now just by Melawi-el-Arieh, having made 25 miles.  This morning before 7 o’clock the Herodotus in tow passed down - and about 11 o’clock this morning we came upon her sticking tight in the sand.  She must have been there a long time and we were just preparing to offer assistance, when she began to start.  Too windy to be on deck today until about 4 o’clock when I went up - and we had tea there - and a beautiful sail, or row until dark - passing the end of the Abu Feydah chain - with a lovely bank of palm trees - villages - fields - cattle, sheep and the evening air of repose over all.  There is a dahabeah just behind us, but too far for us to make her out.  She is probably the Alma.PAGE 169Thursday, Mar. 17.Early this morning I was wakened by hearing Jones saying to Theodore in the hall that we were passing the Olga stuck in the sand, and raising my curtain I saw her plainly - her stern right in the bank and slightly tilted.  None of the family visible - and she had the air of having adapted herself to the situation.  Theodore sent word to ask if we could help her - but it seems she had been there for more than a day, and there was nothing but a tug - so after stopping a moment we came on.  The Mimi passed us in tow later on - and we floated and rowed making Pinieh at 6:30, where we stopped for mail.  Made 31-1/2 miles.Friday, Mar. 18.Started early, Mimi passed us as we pulled out and a good light wind has prevailed all day and we have come on splendidly.  Passed Gelassaneh, abu Girgeh, Haghaha, and are now about 2 miles above Fasben having made 62 miles.  The river has been very difficult today in several places - we were on the sand for a few minutes - and I cannot imagine how the boats we left behind us can get through - as even we with our light draught find it so difficult.  It rained gently for a little while today.Saturday, Mar. 19.Made about 8 miles this morning and got as far as Bibeh, when the north wind was so strong we had to drop our anchor to save ourselves PAGE 170from being sent on to the rocky cliffs - and we have not moved since, except as the wind has swayed us.  The ominous sky brought the storm just as we had finished dinner.  It blew tremendously, and the rain fell in torrents.  The boat proved very tight, the only leaks being in my room, where the roof is higher - and at this offset there were several leaks - and towels, cups and bowls were put in requisition.  I took a volume of McMasters History of the People of the United States from the bookcases this evening, and chanced upon the interesting and pathetic history of the settlement of Galliopolis in Ohio - which I had never read before.4th Sunday in Lent.  Mar. 20.I did not get to bed last night until nearly one o’clock.  The storm which seemed to pass away in the evening, burst upon us again after eleven.  All the family had gone to bed - so Theodore and I stayed up and again put in use the bowls, cups, and towels.  For the first time, I really felt a little afraid as we were lying in the middle of the river - we had 3 anchors down, and the boat tugged at them most unpleasantly.  Early this morning we pulled to the anchor to a safer place, and put out our 3 anchors on a little sand island, where we are still lying, the wind having blown great guns all day.  The Ramses passed us early - feeling her way very cautiously indeed.  I went on deck for a few moments after tea - but it was too windy to be pleasant - though the air was soft and deliciously full of the fragrance of clover blossoms.  Wrote my Sunday letter to Mrs. Titus - and one to Jennie Buttles in Gambier.PAGE 171Monday, March 21.We have had the most exciting day I ever passed o the Nile.  We began the day early, with a light south wind - and found the river very difficult.  About 10 o’clock we descried a Cook Steamer evidently stuck on the sand, ahead of us - and on coming up with her found her to be the Ammartis, which passed us yesterday.  She was surrounded by gyasses, who were relieving her of some of her luggage.  Not long after we passed the Steamer Shellal, a complete wreck, and partly submerged.  She was deserted and in the hands of the wreckers - having stove a hole in her bottom on some unsuspected stones in the river.  Half an hour after sitting at luncheon, our boat gave a sudden lurch, and there was a grinding of stones under her bow.  We all rushed on forward deck, fearing some real calamity; but examination showed no leak, and we came on our way rejoicing; but it was rather nervous work for awhile.  Next we saw one of the large Gage steamers, empty, and abandoned, and left tied to the bank, to wait for higher water, so that she could get down the river.  Then we came up the Ammartis, who had got off the sand, and passed us a short time before, transferring her passengers to the Tewfik, who was sending her to the Ammartis - the latter drawing less water.  So when we found ourselves tonight 6 miles below Wasta and having made 37 miles, and only touched sand once for a moment, we congratulated ourselves.  A beautiful day and evening.Tuesday, Mar. 22.We were off this morning in a light south wind, at 6 o’clock.PAGE 172The wind shifted again and again, but at last came gently and steadily from the south, and we came rapidly along reaching Bedrasheen at 4 o’clock, and making the last 15 miles from there to Cairo or rather Ghizeh at 6:30.  Here we found the landing place all along in front of the Museum, crowded with dahabeahs - and with some difficulty we found a place.  I have never seen so beautiful an approach to Cairo - in the afternoon and evening light, the very picturesque scene of houses and trees at Old Cairo, and the island of Rhoda, dominated by the great Citadel with the dome and slender minarets of the mosque of Mohamet Ali were wonderful.Wednesday, Mar. 23.A warm, cloudless day - home all the morning, and driving with Nettie this afternoon.Thursday, Mar. 24.At home all day - very hot - high Kamseen wind.  Istar came down tonight.Friday, Mar. 25.Drove into Cairo with Nettie in the morning.  In the afternoon we had a delicious drive almost quite to the Mena House.  The air so cool - the fields so green.  Alas!  they are building a trolley line to the Pyramids - and the avenue is very changed from what it was the first time I saw it.  Now some disease seems to have attacked the lubbek treesPAGE 173and they are rapidly dying, with no apparent effort to replant.  Young Courtlandt Bishop came to dine - and the two Ayers, father and son, came in to call - and told us about their troubles descending - having arrived yesterday morning.  She was 2 days on the sand - and got off by employing a windlass and crew of a  big gyassa passing.  A new moon tonight.Saturday, Mar. 26.The wind blew great guns last night - and made such a noise - the water dashing and splashing under the stern, and my very head - and when I wakened this morning, the rain was dashing against my windows.  Fortunately it did not rain hard, or last long - Theodore went in town to lunch with the Bends, and play chess.  Nettie and I drove into Cairo on some necessary affairs, bringing Theodore home with us.  Monty off riding - weather cool and delightful now.  We are quite anxious over the dispatches of the day, from the United States.  That Pres. McKinley’s message says that the Maine was destroyed from outside torpedo and that the U.S. had recognized the Cuban insurgents - very disquieting.5 Sunday in Lent. Mar. 27.To the Museum this morning.  Mr. Varley, Judge Royal, and Mr. Faviger came to tea and made a long pleasant visit.  Amy Bend and Mr. Bishop also turned up - and Mr. Bend and the two girls came to dine.  Mrs. Bend ill in her bed.Page 174Monday, Mar. 28.Very hot all day - home in the morning - and at 5 o’clock in the afternoon Nettie and I drove out to the Mena House and had tea, and home quite late.Tuesday, Mar 29.Theodore, Monty and I spent the morning at the Museum - principally in the rooms up stairs - and I came home well tired.  Home all afternoon - very hot.  Dr. James Ayer came to dine.  Political news from home more reassuring.Wednesday, Mar. 30.The hottest day I ever spent on the Nile.  My room, always the coolest on the heat, had a temperature of 80⁰ and the Cabana 90⁰.  Theodore and I drove into town to see the Bends this morning.  Home, and busy this afternoon with preparations for packing.Thursday, Mar. 31.An uncomfortable day - hot - strong wind - a busy day of packing and dismantling - the last night is always sade.Friday, April 1.Came to the Ghesireh Palace this afternoon - found the grand apartment formerly used by Ismail Pacha ready for us - the rooms enormous - richly furnished and decorated, the salon and my room looking on the river - and seeming very cool and comfortable this hot night.Saturday, April 2.Drove to the dahabeah this morning and then went to the Museum - where it was cool and delightful.  Coming out the heat was so intense, that even in a covered carriage it seemed really terrifying.  Late in the afternoon Nettie and I drove into town to shops and looked after many things.  We keep the enormous windows of our rooms closed from early morning - until seven o’clock at night when they are opened for the cool air - and they admit also mosquitoes and bats.Sunday, April 3.  Palm Sunday. I have not had the courage to move out of the house until at 6 o’clock, after having had a cup of tea, Theodore and I went over to Cairo to pay some farewell visits.  In cross the bridge, the reflected heat from the iron at the sides, was like a blast from a furnace.  We found Mrs. Sandwith in the garden with the children - she said the thermometer stood an hour before at 97⁰.Monday, April 4.A farewell visit to the boat this morning, and a visit to Phillips the antiquity dealer in Cairo afterwards.  Very hot - with the same high, hot Khamseen wind we have had for 2 days.  Mme. Sopher came over this afternoon to shampoo our heads.  Our last preparations are all made - and we shall be off tomorrow - Rais Fuli and Abdul came PAGE 176this evening to see the magnificence of the Palace.  It was amusing to see their impressions.Hotel Bristol.Rome - Saturday, April 9th.Arrived last night - after a very good and comfortable voyage in the Rubitine Steamer Regina Margherita.  Left Cairo the morning of Tuesday April 5, early - weather having so entirely changed, that we were cold in driving to the station.  Rais Fuli, Abdul, Ebrahim, the Cook, and Mohamet Dervish, and our good Salah, were all waiting at the station for us.  As Prince Mohamet Ali and the wife of the French Minister were all going by the same train, there was a very smart gathering of people - especially of red fezs - even Lord Cromer was there.  The Ayers also crossed with us.  The steamer was very clean and comfortable - I had a deck room, with a double bed, so delightful, with a good window by day, and an electric light by night, that I stopped in bed until 5 o’clock of the last day - with my books - and had a beautiful rest.  Reached Naples and landed by 8 o’clock - had breakfast at the Grand - and then a charming drive up the hill and over to Posillippo, and then back in time for early lunch, and off for Rome by one o’clock - which we reached for dinner in our pleasant sitting room at 7:30.  Found piles of letter waiting.  Very serious news as to probably war with Spain - and accounts of the brilliant and decisive battle fought by Kitchener, the Sirdar in the Soudan - great loss of dervishes.  Mahomet the general captured.  We have the corresponding rooms, only PAGE 177one storey higher, than those we had last year.  Drove to St. Peters this morning and to Villa Borghese this afternoon.  Hendrick Andersen dined with us - looking well and happy - last night and tonight.  This morning to his pleasant studio - and were charmed and astonished at the vigor and originality of his work.Easter Sunday, April 10.Splendid weather, and services at St. John of Lateran this morning, and St. Peters in the afternoon - delightful music - and what effects in the St. Peters!  Mrs. and Miss Bronson to dine with us.Monday, April 11.To the Museo delle Terme this morning with Anderson.  To drive in the Borhese in the afternoon.Tuesday, April 12.Vatican with Anderson.  Whiteheads turned up this evening.Wednesday, April 13.To the Vatican Pinacotheca - Mrs. House, Mr. and Mrs. Elliot to dinner.  Dr. Richter called - interesting.Thursday, April 14.To various churches this morning - to a reception at Mrs. Elliotts in the afternoon.  Dr. Bull to dine with us.  Dr. Richter cameDUPLICATE PAGE 177PAGE 178Friday, April 15.To the Doria Pamfili this morning and then to the Lateren.  In the afternoon drove in the beautiful Doria Pamfili gardens.Saturday, April 16.Rain all day and in the house.  Mr. Ayer called.Sunday, April 17.Theodore and I drove out on the Appian way this morning - air deliciously warm and soft - but the wind so high and grew so violent we had to have the top of the carriage up - beautiful storm effects on that wide Campagna, with the tops of the Mts. white with snow.  Mrs. Norman and Mabel came to dine.Monday, April 18.Theodore and I have been nosing about in the various shops of an old man who deals in frames in the Via Gergoriana.  There were such beauties, it was hard to decide.  Chose one of the best for a mirror to be placed in the hall over the hat table.  Dr. Richter came to lunch - conversation about Leonardo, Boticelli, and other artists, and discussion of various pictures.  Then we drove wwith them to visit by appointment the house of Donna Laura Minghetti, to see the famous leonardo da Vinci.  A charming house, and an even more charming and hospitable hostess - and the beautiful picture was a sensation indeed.  The Elliots called this evening.PAGE 179Tuesday, April 19.With the old frame man in Via Gregoriana this morning again and a charming drive, Theodore, Monty, Anderson and I had in the Doria Pamphili gardens this afternoon.  They were not open to the public, but for some reason or other we were allowed to enter, and had all the drives and beautiful avenues to ourselves.  Mrs. Ayer, the Normans to tea - and Dr. Richter to dinner - and we do not go to Florence tomorrow but the next day - for Theodore is trying to get a precious picture.Wednesday, April 20.Miserable weather.  Poked into the old frame shop this morning with Theodore, and out in the rain for half an hour with Nettie though I did not leave the carriage.  Dr. Richter to lunch - and then a very exciting afternoon - he and Theodore went off at 3 o’clock in a closed carriage to Donna Laura Minghetti’s to actually bring home in great secrecy, into our own possession, the incomparable Leonardo, to which we thought it such a privilege only a few days since, to be allowed to see.  It is hard to realize that we have actually acquired it, it seems almost as if we have bought the Vatican or St. Peters!  If we can only get it out of italy without arousing suspicion!  Dr. R. to dinner.Hotel Cavour.Milan. April 29.We have made a great stride on our blessed way home to TobyPAGE 180and the Reef.  Was having been declared, Theodore naturally began to feel uneasy, and to my great satisfaction decided to give up Venice, and go home on the Kaiser der Grosse the 25 May.  Sent Monty over to Venice for 3 days there, and picked him up at Bologne yesterday as we came through.  I lost all our short stay of a week at Florence - as I took to my bed at once with a sharp attack of influenza and did not leave it until the day we came away.  Dr. Baldwin in attendance twice a day.  The cold still hangs on - and I feel really shattered.  Anderson came from Rome with the Normans on Monday - and it was delightful to have him again.  Berenson and mrs. Castello to dine the night before we left and I got up for the dinner.  I was furious that I could not go with Theodore to lunch with them, and see their pretty houses, which Theodore raved about.  It rained all the time we were in Florence, and is still at it,  The weather very heavy and discouraging.Lucerne - April 30.  Hotel National.A perfect day for that incomparable journey over the Alps from Milan here.  We seem to have left all the rain behind us.  Arrived at 7 o’clock leaving Milan at 12:30 and found delightful rooms overlooking the lake.Sunday, May 1st.The brilliant sunshine looked into my room this morning and the views across the lake were glorious with the snow capped mountains, and the green hills enclosing the heavenly blue lake.  Drove for 2 hoursPAGE 181 ( no page number)this morning among the hills and around the lake.  All the country is full of blossoming cherry trees - meadows gay with flowers - the hum of bees and the song of birds.  I heard the nightingales at 4 o’clock this morning.  Wrote letters this afternoon and we had tea out on our balcony.  Magnificent sunset effects - rosy snow mts.  and clouds - reflected in the blue lake!Monday, May 2.Another fine day - walking, driving and hunting over Bossards antiquity shop.  Such a delight to think that next month at this time we ought to be at home - off tomorrow early for Paris.Hotel Westminster.Paris, Wednesday, May. 4.We left Lucerne yesterday at 7:30 A.M. in clouds and rain, which continued all day - and arrived here at 6 o’clock.  Came to our old quarters - most homelike - with the smiling familiar faces of the Concierge and his wife - Emil the waiter, and the kind, deprecating femme de chambre - news of the successful battle at Manilla, and the triumph of Commodore Dewey.  Poor Spain - I am full of sympathy for the brave Queen Christina who has done all she could to rule and direct the troublesome country.  Today it has been storming violently, with bursts of alternate sunshine.  Mary and I were settling ourselves this morning - and began with gowns and shopping this afternoon.  She has gone to the Circus with Theodore and Monty this evening - and I am keeping our cheerful salon company, with a bright wood fire.PAGE 182Paris May 14.Since my last entry there has been nothing to write, except curses - deep and loud, against the weather.  It has rained every day, persistently and continuously.  I have not been out since the 4th, until yesterday, when I drove to Paquins a few doors off, and back.  Theodore has had a great success with his Leonardo.  She was invited to the Louvre, and compared with the Mona Lisa and the Madonna of the rocks.  Braun has photographed her magnificently - and Theodore has given him the privilege of selling the photographs.  Mary goes back home this morning.  Jones and Amilie take her to the train, she has a compartment in the sleeping car which she does not leave until she reaches Pisa tomorrow night at 11 o’clock - where Nettie meets her, and spends the night, and the have most of the day together there before going back to Florence.  We go at 11 o’clock tomorrow via Calais to London.Hotel Bristol.  London.May 17th.We came over very comfortably from Paris on Sunday - in spite of the rain.  Fortunately it held up as we were getting on and off the boat, or it would have gone hard with me, as there is no protection whatever in the way of a roof.  I had a nice little cabin, and laid down and slept most of the way - and the sea was smooth.  Found our old quarters at this most comfortable of all hotels - and the weather has been good.  Shopped a little and drove in the Park yesterday and today.PAGE 183This afternoon went with Theodore around to the Burlington Arts Club to see the collection of Milanese paintings - quite charming and interesting.  Found the photograph of our Leonardo there opposite the Mona Lisa.  We have had visits from the Farrars, Denbighs, Mr. Rathbone and Fielding - all the rest off to the theatre, as they were last night.  I do not risk the exposure.  Mr. Emmons here today - they sail tomorrow on the Teutonic.Sunday, May 22.The week has been rather quiet.  I have had not dining out, no theatres or operas - as I do not go out in the evening.  Theodore has been busy doing all of these things - and I scarcely see him, except at breakfast.  The weather has been bad - today it is mending.  I have had almost a daily drive in the Park - and yesterday I lunched with Lady Denbigh - and met some pleasant people.  Tonight Theodore dines with Lord Denbigh - a man’s dinner for Lady D. has gone down to Nuneham to her family of 8 children.  Fielding came early yesterday, and he and Theodore knocked about to galleries and shops in the morning, and he came to lunch and went with us afterward to the Military Tournament; came back to tea - and went home and dressed, came back and ined, and he and Theodore had an old fashioned game of chess.  I have just got home from a solitary drive in the Part - having first gone to tea with Miss Farrer.  The Park lovely, backward as is the season, the trees are well out now, and the thorns beginning to show their flowers.  Dr. Bridgman called after lunch and made me a visit - telling me all aboutPAGE 184our war!  how the Spaniards had a disciplined navy, and we had not - how much cleverer and quicker they were than we - what an unrighteous war it was - but that in the end we must win, for they (England) intended standing by us!Tuesday, May 24.Our last evening in London - and these two last days have been very busy - between friends and affairs.  The weather still uncertain - we made the acquaintance of Mr. Sydney Colvin this afternoon.  He came to see the Leonardo - and I talked a little with him about Stevenson.  He looks rather a hard, dry fellow.  Mr. Rathbone and Farrar here too.  Last agonies of packing going on in all our rooms.Tuesday, June 1st.Holland House.Just one week ago tonight I made the last entry - and it is hard to realize - and now we are here again, after a very comfortable and monotonous voyage.  The Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse is the finest ship I have ever sailed on.  Such comfort, luxury, cleanliness - good service, and the  best and most profuse table I ever saw.  Mr. Rathbone and Fielding were at the station to say goodbye, the morning we left London.  A quick and pleasant ride to Southhampton, and as we ran along the big dock, with the Kaiser lying close to it, she looked enormous from the train.  On three consecutive days we made 560 miles - and the voyage would have made a record, had we not 2 days before reaching PAGE 185New York, broke one or the blades of one of the screws.  However, we were in our slip by 10:30 this morning.END vol 511