PAGE 72October 25, 1910SS. Kronprinz Wilhelm.Sailed this a.m. from New York at ten o’clock for Cherbourg and Paris.  It seems an absurd route to take to Cairo – but the service of the Mediterranean steamers is so disorganized because of the cholera in so many infected port, and the necessity of quarantine, that we cancelled our engagement for Naples.  We will take the Schleswig at Marseilles, instead of Naples. Sunday, Oct. 30.We have had an uneventful stupid voyage, and are due at Cherbourg tomorrow.  We have had rain, cold winds, and rough seas.  Very pleasant rooms.Paris – Oct. 31. Westminster Hotel.We made Plymouth at 7 o’clock this morning – I got up and looked out at the interesting coast – reached Cherbourg at 1 p.m. and were off at 3.  We felt some little trepidation at committing ourselves to a French railway – there has been such a history of accidents in France! But we knew that this line had been thoroughly repaired – as was shown by the piles of the old sleepers all along the road – in the most astounding state of decay – utter rottenness – they gave damning evidence of neglect.  I had never seen the Brittany country before. How charming those wide reaching fields were, in the late afternoon light – so softly green – and the characteristic, mostly PAGE 73pollarded trees in their tints of bronze and olive green and russet pink, made a picture, or rather a succession of them that looked as if they might have been painted by Troyen or Coret.  It was a blissful afternoon – and we so enjoyed it.  Arrived in Paris at 10 – and found Mr. Rathbone waiting for us.  They are at the Bedford.Tuesday. Nov. 1st.It has poured with rain all day – have not been out of the house.  It is All Saints Day, and every magasin and museum is closed.  Mr. and Mrs. Rathbone and Elèna came to lunch, and are to turn up at the Gare de Lyon at 10.  Mr. and Mrs. John E. Parsons are in this hotel, and we went to their rooms to have tea with them.  We quite enjoyed our little dinner up in our sitting room.  Hotel are crowded here – the manager told us there were more than 200 people in Paris waiting for a chance to cross the Mediterranean.N. G. Lloyd SS. Schleswig.Wednesday. Nov. 2nd.We had a rough night on our funny Wagon-Lit – and jolted through it with what patience we could – felling as if we were travelling in a card-board box – arrived by 9 o’clock – found our old rooms ready for us – did not get off until nearly 5 o’clock – there being so many passengers and such piles of luggage. PAGE 74Friday. Nov. 4th.Passed the straits at 1.30 – a lovely day – warm and calm.  The dreadful ravages on either hand, were a piteous contrast to the beauty of the day.Sunday. Nov. 6th.Due at Alexamdria tomorrow at 6am – a warm, lovely passage.  I have been writing letter busily.Monday. Nov. 7th.Shepheards Hotel.Arrived at 12:30 and were soon eating lunch on the 13th day out from New York! Surprising when one reflects that our steamers to Naples always take 13 days for the voyage! Are in our pleasant[1] old rooms, overlooking the garden – the weather is perfect.Monday. Nov. 14th.Rather a busy week, settling ourselves and things on the boat, seeing sights –visiting and receiving friends – consulting Mr. Draper about the little mooring garden. Lunched one day with the Gorsts, and another day went to a reception there. Capt. Trefusis, and Mr. Carter Bonham, Elèna’s friend, dined with us one night, and Mr. Lovatt and son – another night – and Mr. Lovatt and son and Mr. Walter Gay came to tea on our first afternoon on the boat.  We had tea with the Gays one afternoon – Mrs. Gay very attractive.PAGE 75 Monday. Nov. 21st.We came on board to stay on the 16th and sailed the next day at 10 a.m. passed the Ghizeh bridge about 10.20.  We have a good strong tug.  Tied up at 5 P.M. We find a tremendously big, wide river, with very trong current and made 35 miles the first day, 42 the second, 51 the third, 39 the fourth, 47 the 5th, 37 the 6th, 51 the seventh, 43 the eighth, 38 the ninth, 50-½ the tenth – arrived at Luxor the 27th.  We tied up much in our usual place – to a mite of a sand bank, opposite the castle.Second Sunday in Advent. Dec. 4th.A pleasant two weeks we have had – fine, good weather.  Elèna busy and enchanted.  We have been over to the Valley for lunch.  The Buckley family here for tea one afternoon.  Mr. Carter and Mr. Weigall for lunch.  Mr. Nicol also for lunch.  Theo several times to the Valley.Third Sunday in Advent. Dec. 11th.A rather busy week.  Mr. Weigall and his sister Mrs. Butler to tea one day.  Mr. Nicol to dine – Mrs. Butler and Mr. Weigall to dine.  Theo has established Harry Burton in his new concession the ‘Priest Kings’ Valley.  M. Maspero was anxious Theo should clear this but Theo does not look for much of a result.  Harold Jones is so poorly, so weak, quite incapable of work, even painting.  Buth his brother Cyril keeps a certain supervision of the men.  This afternoon Elèna, Theo and I rode over to see Mr. Carter and see some of Mr. Nicol’s paintings –PAGE 76Very lovely they were.  Theo bought one.Fourth Sunday in Advent.  Dec. 18th.Harold Jones and Cyril came over and spent 3 days at the Winter Palace, lunched twice with me.  I gave tea at the Palace on day, and asked a few of Harold’s friends – the poor fellow looked very tired when it was over.  Baron v. Mumm  called one afternoon – he is on his way back to China – he is the German minister of China.  Mr. And Mrs. Gibson Fahnstock came to tea on Wednesday.  We had for tea Miss Kelly and her brother, Mr. Whitaker and Mr. Whymper were here for tea.  The Kellys played and sang.Christmas Day – Dec. 25th.We had the usual gifts for the sailors this morning – Harry Burton came this evening to stay until Wednesday morning.  Tuesday being market day, it is the one holiday in the week for workmen.  Theo spent 3 days in the Valley this week. Mr. Crane, who is busy painting the Horemheb tomb, lunched with us today.  Capt. Walter Trefusis dined with us today.  Saturday. Dec. 31st.We have had a cold week.  Theo spent his usual 3 days in the Valley – nothing has yet been found.  We have seen a good deal of Mr. Whitaker and his party. They are on the old Cleopatra – but he has done a great deal to it and put about a great many pretty things, and PAGE 77It looks very attractive.  Mr. and Mrs. Newberry are with him, and they are to excavate somewhere near Akmim.Saturday Jan. 7. 1911The “Miriam” with the Masperos arrived on the 3rd.  Theo and I called on them the next morning.  Madame Maspero has been very ill on the way up with a bronchial attack.  They are to stay 3 weeks.  Mrs. McCormick and Miss Scott dined here tonight.Saturday. Jan. 14.Mr. and Mrs. Buckley to lunch on Sunday, a warm fine day.  Mr. Carter to tea one day.  Harry as usual here for 2 days.  Theo as usual in the Valley 3 days.  Many visitors.Saturday. Jan. 21.The usual weekly story – visitors, visits, teas and dinners.  Lady Gorst and Miss Gorst here for tea one afternoon.Saturday. Jan. 28th.A rather cold stormy week, with a little rain.  Mrs. Hunter of London dined on Monday – Mrs. And Miss Warner of Boston and Miss Webb, a Marquise Guadalmina and her son, Spaniards, here to tea on Wednesday.  Theo and I at Mohassibs one morning – met Miss Cassatt, the artist who lives in Paris.  Mr. and Mrs. Kelekian came with her afterwards for tea. Mr Nicol dined on Friday. Cold and stormy.PAGE 78Saturday. Feb. 4thAmong our visitors this week was the Rev. Endicott Peabody, Head Master of the famous school for boys at Groton, Mass. Introduced by cable from Mr. Fairfield Osborn.  A very interesting man.  Mr. and Mrs. Newberry dined on Tuesday.  Mr. and Mrs. Nahmstock to lunch on Wednesday.  Theo as usual in the Valley 3 days.Saturday. Feb. 11.Among our visitors this week were Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Alexander of 4 West 58 St. New York on the Serapis with their 3 girls; Mr. and Mrs. Henry Hobhouse of England introduced by Gaspard Farrer; Mr. and Mrs. Williams and Mr. and Mrs. Langley P.W.D. people of Cairo; Mr. and Mrs. Gerard Foster of Lenox, Miss Ives and Mrs. Alexander of New York whose daughter lately married young Theodore Roosevelt; Mr. and Mrs. John Collander Livingston [2]on the “Scarab”.  It has been bitterly cold lately – and constant high winds – we have been covered with sand – as the wind has been from the west.  Theo came home from the Valley, after 4 days there.Sunday. Feb. 13th.Another bitterly cold day – Mr. Whymper to breakfast – so delightfully amusing.  I had a quiet morning.  Mr. and Mrs. Girard Foster, and Mrs. Graham, who is up from Cairo, for a few days, came to tea.PAGE 79Sunday. Feb. 19th.A rather monotonous week of constant visitors.  Amongst the most pleasant were Mr. and Mrs. John Collander Livingston, and daughter sent by Mrs. Hamilton Fish Webster. Delightful people.  Our neighbors Mr. and Mrs. Anchincloss and Miss Jennings, M. and Mme. Naville and M. Rodier to dine.  Mrs. And Miss Cherry, sisters of Mr. Cust, M. and Mme. Maspero and others.  Theo and I had a charming afternoon with Mr. Carter in his new house – so well built and arranged and pretty – it looked like the abode of an artist and a scholar.  He is just opening a large tomb or cachette for Lord Carnarvon – and when we had tea, he went back at once to his work.  The Hon. Henry and Mrs. Hobhouse (from G. Farrer) dined with us this evening. Theo is to give them lunch in the Valley tomorrow.Sunday. Feb. 26th.We telegraphed for tug some days ago – but have no satisfactory answers – the boat has been in proper trim for going down for some time.  Such continued cold weather and uch gales – we have no deck life at all. Telegram from Mr. J.P. Morgan begging Theo to wait here until he comes.  Crowds of visitors.  Lady Layard, and the Countess here to tea today.  I have been to Karnak several times – Nicol here twice to dine.Mar. 1. Ash Wednesday.Mr Morgan with his sister arrived on the Khonsu – on Monday, PAGE 80and lunched in the Valley with Theo.  I did not go out.   Had tea on the Sudan with Mrs. Anchincloss and Miss Jennings. Over to say goodbye to Contessa Contardone who was ill in bed with bad cold.Friday. Mar. 3rd.Elèna arrived from Khartoum last evening.  Mr. and Mrs. Newberry and Mr. Johnson (Père) Mr. Whymper were here for tea.  Mr. Nicol to dine.  We started 10 minutes to 11 o’clock – and at 6 p.m. were at Keneh, where we waited for Harry and Elèna to visit Dendera – then we moved on 2-3 miles for the night – making altogether 50 miles.Saturday. Mar. 4th.     40 miles. Sailed at 7 A.M. – reached Nagh Hamadi at 12:15, passed the bridge and then waited until 3:30, waiting for the tug to cool – and reached Balliana at 5:30 where we wait until tomorrow – to give Elèna Rathbone a chance to see Abydos – and we promised the Navilles to lunch with them.  It has been a fine, warm day – and our brillian young moon, and the resplendent Venus, make the nights too beautiful to sleep.Monday. Mar. 6th.Started about 10 for Abydos – fearing a hot day – had 2 carriages – we found a cold north wind blowing, and we really suffered with cold.  It was a market day, and the people were streaming along the dusty road – men, women carrying babies, camels, donkeys, sheep andPAGE 81goats – making the air thick with dust.  It is such a pity that one must always see Abydos in the glare of mid-day!  Mme. Naville came up from their little house in its nest in the sandy desert, to see us – and we all went back with her – I sitting on a man’s saddle on a wretched donkey, - the cold wind almost blowing my clothes off – and my eyes blinded.  But the little house was cheerful and comfortable and the lunch very good, and M. and Mme. Naville very nice as they always are.  Mr. Whitmore and Mr. Dixon, young men working with the Navilles.  The ride home was away from the wind, and the fields so green and fragrant with their blossoming crops, and the birds singing everywhere.  The people were in their straw houses, which they build for watching their crops – and it was very pastoral.  Found a huge mail waiting for us.  We steamed down to Girga, 8 miles, and are here for the night.Tuesday. Mar. 7th.Started at 6 A.M. and went on until 6 P.M. -  5 miles from Assiut – making 87 miles.Wednesday. Mar. 8th.52 miles.Arrived at Assiut early, and waited for various things – 4 hours – then on to 7 miles of Hadj Kandul.Thursday. March 9th.Started at 7 o’clock – stopped at Hagi Kondul for an hourPAGE 82so that Elèna should see the Khuenaton pavement, then on, until Beni Hassan was reached, which Elèna and Harry visited.  The day hot – wind and clouds of dust.  43 miles.Friday, March 10th.53 miles.Started at 7 o’clock – spent 2 hours at Minia – tied up at 6 o’clock at Maghaga.Saturday. Mar. 11th.87 miles.An early start at 6 o’clock – and reached Bedreschein at 7 o’clock.  The river has been rather good.  The tug has been on the sand once or twice for a short time, but the dahabya has not once touched it – a strong wind all day and cold. Second Sunday in Lent. March 12th.Started at 7 o’clock – and made the bridge at 9 o’clock and waited an hour to pass. Came to our landing at 11.30 – and found the mooring garden looking very pretty.  We arrived the 10th day from Luxor.  Found telegram telling of Harold Jones’ peaceful end on Thursday, the 9th.March 13th. Monday.Mr. Draper to lunch yesterday.  At home all day – rather warm today.  Elèna and I drove into town this morning – saw a numberPAGE 83of friends – met Mr. Newberry at Deimers, and he went with us to Kolekians and to Kasseras – there Theo and Harry joined us, and we went to Nachmans.  Elèna and Harry went after lunch to the Mena House, and Theo and I went for a drive – and finding ourselves, in spite of warm wraps, freezing in the cold wind, we came home.March 14th. Tuesday.At home all day – still cold and windy.Wednesday. March 15th.Elèna and Harry made and early start for Sakkara – going by train to the Mena House, and taking donkeys for Sakkara.  They came back at 7 P.M. after a joyful day.  Mr. Winlock appeared this morning at 10 – and made quite a visit – then he, Theo and I went to town, and to Kyticas’s to see a lovely Greek statuette which Theo thinks of buying.  Mr. and Mrs. Newberry and Mr. Johnson came to lunch, and we had such a pleasant visit.  I went at 5 o’clock over to the Cleopatra to tea with the Whittakers – Lady Layard, and the 2 ladies staying with them, Mr. Johnson and Capt. Trefusis there.  Coming home, I overtook Theo walking, and as the cold, cold wind had much moderated, and he got into the carriage, we drove around the island.Thursday. Nov. 16th.In town this morning – met Artin Pasha, and Mr. Sayce at Kyticas’s – then went to the Museum – M. Daressy took us into hisPAGE 84working room, to show how he was succeeding with the restoring of the beautiful coffin found in Queen Tiyi’s tomb – a long and very difficult task it is.  Friday. Mar. 17.The morning was so very hot, that we did nothing but drive until 12 o’clock – when I left Theo at the boat, and I went to the Semeraine’s Hotel to see Mrs. Duvar – she was not at home.  I left a note for her.  In the afternoon, Elèna went with Mr. Bonar-Carter to polo – Harry and Mr. Whymper to the Zoo, where Theo and I soon followed them – and had a lovely visit.  Just as we came away, we me Artin Pasha, and Mr. Sayce, who said they had just been to the boat hoping to find us, so they came back all of them for tea, and a long visit, and much pleasant talk.Saturday. Mar. 18th.In the house all day – a severe gale began about 7 o’clock – and grew in violence – making a great knocking about of the boats along the shore – a small yawl disappeared just behind us – and a gyassa was wrecked near the bridge.  Cairo could not be seen across the river, in the clouds of dust.  In doors all day.Sunday. Mar. 19th.The weather quite perfect today.  I have not been out.  Mr. Bonham Carter came in this afternoon – and Capt. Trefusis – looking PAGE 85so well, and announcing his engagement to Miss Margery Graham – the marriage to take place in May.   She is a daughter of Sir John Graham and a niece of Lord Northampton.Monday. Mar. 20th.In the house all day, except for a short visit to town.  Mrs. Dewar came for a visit at 12 o’clock – and Miss Coater for lunch.  Since then I have been busy packing.  The day has been decidedly cool.Thursday. Mar. 23rd Ghezireh Palace HotelWe came here this afternoon to our old rooms.  It was sad to leave the dahabya – but the garden and lawns and trees are so lovely here, and our big windows let in so much of it to us – that it is quite lovely.Maspero to Louise, 11/10/1910 "Maspero Lettres to Louise p 497CAIRE, LE 10 NOVEMBRE 1910Le travail commence á abonder au Musée : les touristes et les fouilleurs rentrent. Davis est arrivé avant-hier, florissant, avec Madame Andrews et une nièce nouvelle du nom de Rathbone, une grande et belle fille un peu fanée (wilted), mais de manières très supérieures á celles des nièces des années précédentes. II est plus bruyant que jamais, mais toujours brave homme, et nous avons été contents l’unet I'autre de nous revoir. Ils resteront une huitaine de jours ici, le temps de mettre la Bédouine en etat de naviguer. Parlant de dahabiéh, où as-tu mis la clef de notre cabine dans la Miriam? Nous en avons besoin pour faire donner une couche de peinture. Je vais la rechercher encore, mais dis-moi de toute façon si tu te rappelles où elle est: iI-est possible que, malgré tout, je ne la retrouve point parmes seules lumieres[ ... ]Callender Livingston? Per Pelham history website11	      1910-191111