PAGE 60Thursday. Nov. 5th 1908.SS. Princess Irene.    We are nearing the end of this part of our voyage – having sailed from New York Saturday the 24th Oct.  Mary Newberry who had been spending the week there, and Anita Ohio went down to see us off.  Mrs. And Mr. Walter Jennings and family – 2 children, 2 maids, tutor and governess, with Miss Gallandet, and sister Miss Jennings, were fellow passengers. They are relatives of Mrs. Hugh Amkincloss, who was Miss Jennings.  Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Pell, also on board.  A dull voyage, much rain and warm – I occupied for the 3rd time the Captain’s charming rooms on the bridge – and what lovely hours of rest and quiet I had, after all the din and stir of the summer.  The steamer is comfortable but slow, we reached Gibraltar on the 11th day and ought to be in Naples tonight, only we won’t, at least we hope to make our steamer tomorrow.Monday. Nov. 9.Cairo – Shepheards     We did just make our steamer the ‘Preussen’ on Friday – Mr. and Mrs. Pell with us.  We all occupied the Captain’s and officer’s rooms on the bridge – and were very comfortable – landed at Alexandria at 3 this P.M. got the train, and at 7 o’clock were installed in our familiar rooms on the pleasant garden.  We have never been so early before. Not many people yet.PAGE 61Eldon and Lady Gorst. Mr. and Mrs. Pell have been dining with us. We have had a busy 10 days in Cairo.  Every one has been so kind.  We went to Lady Gorsts to a garden party – to the Iddings to dine – and to a tea, where we met delightful people.  Mr. and Mrs. Iddings dined with us that evening, and Capt. Trefusis – M. Maspero another evening, and the Capt. Who also lunched with us.  The great event was Theo’s presentation to the Khedive, which Mr Iddings has been trying to persuade him to do for 3 years – but this year he consented – and he was received in a private audience.  Mr. Iddings came for him in his own carriage, with his decorative Kavass, and 2 gorgeous running Sayces, and Theo had to appear in frock coat and top hat at 10 in the morning.  I couldn’t but laugh when I saw them drive off in such style, for I knew how he hated it.  It was very successful however, and Mr. Iddings told me he had never seen the Khedive so interested in an interview.Friday. Nov. 20.     In town with Theo this morning, doing last things. Capt. Trefusis lunched with us.  Our tug took us to the bridge landing at 1 o’clock and we hoped to get through the draw comfortably.  But the usual scrimmage occurred – and we came near losing the top of our big boom.  Then we had to get through the new Ghizeh bridge – we landed the Capt. And waited until most of the gyassas had passed through.  We got as far as the big Sugar station, 5 miles below Bedreschein – very cold. PAGE 62Saturday. Nov. 21.     Very busy settling- made Wasta at 5 P.M. warmer.  The river is tremendous and the current very strong – it is a mighty flood – but will do great good to the country.23rd Sunday after Trinity. Nov. 22.     Sailed at 6 a.m. and tied up at 7 P.M. making 50 miles – warmer and a wonderful sunset.Monday. Nov. 23rd.     Sailed from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Delayed for 4 hours at Sheik Fadl for coal for the tug – have made 40 miles and are now lying 10 miles below Minia.  A most wonderful river – no one knows its channel and our tug goes scalloping about on it in an extraordinary way.Tuesday. Nov. 24th      We made an early start at 5:30 and are now at Mellawi – having made 41-½ miles – beautiful weather, though the wind is cold. Wednesday. Nov. 25th. 48 miles.     An early start – we are about 10 miles below Asyût, weather charming.Thursday. Nov. 26. 40 miles.     Reached Asyût at 8 this morning – we were passingPAGE 63the great Weir before I knew it – the draw open and all the sluices – and such a tremendous body of water running through.  Our tug had hard work to pull us.  Stopped for mail. Mr. Russell called.Friday. Nov. 27,45 miles.     In spite of strong N.W. wind.  We are lying 6 miles below Girga.Saturday. Nov. 28.32 miles.     A very early start, before dawn.  Such a beautiful hour followed! The sunrise, and this strange, interesting land, and the quiet hour of reading and reflection, nothing can ever take it from me.  A fine day, with strong N.W. wind, which meeting the strong current of the river, made quite a sea.  We reached Nagh Hamadi at 3 o’clock thinking the bridge opened at 3:30 but found it opened at 3 o’clock – so we were forced to stay the night.  It was quiet enough – and the late afternoon and evening most lovely.First Sunday in Advent. Nov. 29.     We passed the bridge most easily at 7:30 – before I got up.  The tug took us up as far as the difficult turn at Kasr es Sayd – then left us with much hearty leave-takings and receiving of liberal backsheesh.  The day was absolutely calm, and we were left alone in the middle of the river, with both sails limply hanging – we have tracked, pulled to the anchor and sailed a little very quietly and are now lyingPAGE 64within sight of  Dishneh – a most exquisite evening.  17 miles.Monday. Nov. 30.42 ½ miles.     Made an early start this morning in a good wind, and reached this high bank, one mile below Nagada at 5.30.  An exciting day – the boat careering madly along – sailors shouting – sails changing, and all the clamor of a sharp sailing.  The morning was delicious – I was on deck all the time until we were delayed by a gyassa which cut across our bow in an awkward way, and going immediately upon the sand just in front of us, we had to pull up so sharply that we went with a  great thump on the bank – there was a great tumbling about of all movable things – and when I came below to see about it - I found Amelie, Jones, Hassein, and Hassoun busy setting everything straight.  Last year we came on the boat Nov. 30.  We are much in advance this year! Tuesday. Dec. 1st.23-½ miles.     Luxor. A high wind, but not favourable, all day.  However we came gallantly in with sails filled at 5.30 and found ourselves the first arrival of the season. Everyone was on the lookout for us, and we were told that we made a splendid appearance, as we rushed along past the town to our old mooring ground on the island.  Harold Jones was waiting for us at the Winter Palace, Tuesday being his off day.  He came over at once, and stayed to dinner and gave us the news.  It took us 10 days and part of another day from Cairo here.PAGE 65Wednesday. Dec. 2nd.     I have had a quietly busy and most pleasant day at home.  Theo and Eleanor were at Karnak and the Luxor temple.  A big mail last night, and reams of papers. No bad news.  Mathilde better.Thursday. Dec. 3rd.     Theo and Eleanor went to the Valley today and did not get back until 4 o’clock.  They report the road very bad as far as the bridge. Harold is working between Hor-em-heb and Amenhotep II tomb.  Cold.Friday. Dec. 4th.     Theo and Eleanor at Karnak today – and I over to the town.  Mr. and Mrs. Weigall were here this afternoon.Saturday. Dec. 5th.     Theo at the boat very busy with letters.  Eleanor and I went over and called on Miss Buchanan – such a very nice visit.  The school very prospering – over 280 pupils.  The place has much improved – a fine stone wall all about it – and a beautiful garden making.  Second Sunday in Advent. Dec. 6.     A quiet day at home – Theo and Eleanor over at the Valley. The roads and embankments have been so spoiled by the river, that they are well nigh impossible – and I cannot get over in my chair until theyPAGE 66are better. Last night about 12 o’clock, I was aroused by cries that I thought must be those of a jackal – it proved to have been a man in the river.  Six men had gone to our opposite neighbor Mr. Insingers, to rob and steal.  They overpowered the night watchman, and one of them got into the house.  Mr. Insinger sent a shot at the man, who ran, followed by Mr. Insinger firing at him – the man took to the river, and found the current so strong that he screamed for help.  The police appeared and caught the man, who gave the names of the men with him.  There is a great deal of lawlessness about the country and some alarm felt.Monday. Dec. 7th.     Eleanor and I went to see Miss Buchanan this morning – such a brave little woman.  Our nights are now most beautiful – full moon.Tuesday. Dec. 8th.     Beautiful weather – Harold Jones came over this morning and stayed all night.Wednesday. Dec. 9th.     A cold day – Mr. and Mrs. Weigall here this afternoon.Thursday. Dec. 10th.     Eleanor and I went over to Luxor and drove out to see Mrs. Weigall.  Found Mr. Whymper and Dr. Dunn there.  Afterwards to the SavoyPAGE 67to call on Mrs. Quibell and Miss Pirie – not at home – then asked for Miss Bruce and Miss Dobie – the former in bed – and I went up to her room to see her.  Theo in the Valley today.Friday. Dec. 11.     Another fine day – but still cold.  Everybody growling about the continued cold.Saturday. Dec. 12th.     Very busy with catalogues and gardening plans.Third Sunday in Advent. Dec. 13.     Eleanor and Theo in the Valley.  Had a nice visit from Mr. Carter this morning – Mr. Whymper, Mr. and Mrs. Weigall dined with us, a pleasant evening.Monday. Dec. 14th.     Rather warmer today.  Mrs. Quibell and Miss Pirie called.  So glad to see them.Tuesday. Dec. 15th.     Harold Jones lunched here – having spent the night with the Weigalls – and intending to return there for the night.  Theo and Eleanor at Der el Bahari.PAGE 68Wednesday. Dec. 16th.     In doors, except for a long walk on the sands – Miss Bruce and Miss Dobie here this afternoon.Monday. Dec. 21st.     Dr. and Mrs. Campbell and daughter came this afternoon, bringing with them Count and Countess d’Albertis of Genoa.  Harold Jones later, all stayed to tea.  The days are so quiet and monotonous there is little to chronicle.Wednesday. Dec. 23rd.     The ‘Scarab’ and ‘Osiris’ up today, and came to our side, directly behind us.  The Scarab almost poking her nose into my cabin.Friday. Dec. 25th.     Mr. Almerio Paget called this morning.  He is on the Scarab with his wife (Pauline Whitney) and family.  We had our usual little celebration with the men this morning.  The usual Christmas festivities. Harold spent the night here – and with those 3 nice men Mr. Whymper, and Mr. Nicol, dined here.  Joe Smith arrived with his wife today, they are staying at Weigalls.Tuesday. Dec. 29th.     At tea with the Scofields on the Maat.  Harold here for the day.  Mr. F. Lagge and his friend Mr. Pease dined with us.  Theo has PAGE 69bought one of Mr. Nicol’s best pictures.  The Scarab with the Pagets and the Osiris with Sir Arthur and Lady Paget went up today. Lovely weather.Wednesday. Dec. 30th.     Mrs. Weigall, Mrs. Smith, and Miss Buchanan lunched here.  Baron de Vos of the Dongela called, also Mr. Mandsley bringing the horrible news of the Messina earthquake.Thursday. Dec. 31st.      Miss Grace Scofield, Eleanor and I, and Theo went to the Valley today, lunched in our comfortable little stone house.  Perfect day.Jan. 12th. Tuesday.     Various happenings social and otherwise since the month came in.  Mrs. Weigall and Corinna Smith come every Saturday morning to read.  Mr. and Mrs. Walter Brown of Venice are here for a month, with Mrs. B’s mother, Mrs. Beckwith.  Theo had Mr. Nicol out one day in the Valley wishing to show him the western valley.  Mrs. Henry Taft with her daughters dined with us one evening, with Mr. Nicol, Weigall and Joe Smith.  Then we had them (Mrs. and Miss Taft) out to the Valley next day.  The Jennings have turned up.  Baron de Vos called – some things quite interesting have been found in the debris of the pit tomb Theo has been working in lately.  Bits of gold foil, stamped with the cartouches ofPAGE 70Thut-ankh-amon, Ai and S-ankh-aten, wife of T.A.A.  She was the 3rd daughter of Akenaten.Friday. Jan. 15th.     Theo again in the Valley – Mr. Erskine has turned up again – he lunched with Theo today.Saturday. Jan 16th.     Hortense Weigall, and Corinna Smith were her this morning for the usual reading.  They are all camping out up at the Beit Wilkinson place – and Eleanor and I went up there to lunch.  Mr. Erskine and Rev. Colins Campbell were there – a pleasant day.Jan. 21 – Thursday.     Harold found yesterday in the last corner of the pit tomb, a most lovely alabaster statuette of a woman – about 9 in. high, the most perfect specimen of Egyptian art I have ever seen, and in perfect condition.  To think of her lying under that hard mud for nearly 3000 years! no inscription.  It is thought it may represent the wife of Thut-ankh-amen.  Theo, Eleanor and M. and Mme. Maspero in the valley today.  Lovely weather.Third Sunday after Epiphany.  Jan. 24th.     We were distressed and amazed this morning at breakfast toPAGE 71Hear of poor Corinna’s disaster.  She was here yesterday morning as usual.  I thought she looked very tired and troubled.  She had many things to do in town, before she went back to their camp.  The Petries were dining with them.  She was then suffering extremely from pain in one eye – which grew so bad that she became delirious.  They (she and Joe) got some donkeys and came at a walk all the way to the river, where they quietly aroused some of our sailors, who rowed them across to Luxor to the doctor.  He advised them to go at once to Cairo – and they now are on their way there.  It is a hideous experience for the poor things – a very bad case of opthalmia.  The Walter Browns here to tea.81908-190988