
       Cairo

Best Beloved - 		As Doris wrote you early in the week I postponed my writing.  We moved to this hotel Friday and were glad to get away from the dahabya on account of the heat which was growing too great on the river.  It’s much cooler here.  The rooms are perfectly gigantic - truly palatial.  There’s a nice garden to walk or sit in.  But I have a confused feeling, - my room is so big I can’t find any of my things without hunting all over the place.  I feel that we are wasting opportunities here but we can’t help ourselves.  I’ve done only two things worth doing since last Sunday.  One of them was the Torchlight Tattoo Tuesday evening on Kasr el Nil Barracks Ground.  It was a very fine spectacle, - quite thrilling to see issuing forth from a great doorway two hundred Gordon Highlanders each carrying a torch.  They marched and evoluted in lines of light; and finally took their stand outlining three sides of a tremendous hollow square in which all the performances took place.

The other worth-while incident of the week was spending a couple of hours in the museum Wednesday morning and seeing the wonders there in the new light of my recently acquired learning in Egyptology.  For the rest I’ve gone to dressmakers and done errands, and taken little drives to nowhere and played many games of dominoes.  This morning Harry Burton and I went to church while Doris staid on duty, and this afternoon I staid while Doris and Harry went to the Zoo.  They had a fascinating time and saw many enchanting sites - baby lions and baby giraffes and a hippo that came when it was called and opened and shut, at the bidding of its keeper, the cavern it calls its mouth; and a baby elephant marching at the head of a company of Scotch pipers; and they had their tea on a tiny island in a little lake where they were surrounded by pelicans and flamingoes. 

Tomorrow we go to Sakkara on camels - a 16 mile ride in all.  I’m doing it out of pure bravado because Doris thinks I can’t.  "Mother you’re crazy! And Roger wouldn’t allow it for a minute if he were here."  But you are not here, are you darling?  Alas! that you are not!  And I know you like your mother to be a true sport.  Harry and Doris and I and a Lady Hilda something to whom we have talked several times, and who is who is [sic] cutting all kinds of engagements tomorrow to go with us. 

Goodnight my own dear boy.  God bless you and keep you safe.
							Your loving
								     Mother
[page 25; hw 40] 
We’ve had to make some plans for the summer - though they can be bro[ken] if they do not prove best.  Doris wants very much to go to Castine.  I’ve written to engage three rooms there.  But what I do when summer really comes depends mainly on what you do.  Only one must have an anchor to windward. 
							M.

								Sunday 6 April, 1913