

Darling Gopher - The cable which John sent me telling of his father’s death was five days late in being delivered to me.  I cabled at once to Auntie Paige, and of course followed that message immediately by a lett[er.]  If they telegraphed you I do hope you did the proper thing.  I cannot he[lp] feeling very anxious about Paige.  She has been under such a tremendous strain for so long that I’m afraid under the sudden cessation of it she may go to pieces.  Of course you will go to see her at once in Clevelan[d] and I beg you to write me at once all about her.  I hope Winifred has taken the baby to Cleveland.  Nothing in the world could divert Paige or help her as much as that baby.

Your letter of the 21 Nov. reached me Saturday the 7th and rejoiced me through and through.  I’m also glad that you have decided to live at th[e] Hall - if it is not going to interfere with your work and keep you up too late at night.  As to your surgical operation, I do not anticipate any trouble at all from that.  Nevertheless I shall want a line of immediately - sooner than you will feel like writing it; so arrange with the doctor or one of your friends to write me at once.  If it were a more serious thing I should, of course, want a cable.

We go on living in the Arabian Nights.  We had tea yesterday afternoon on the dahabeah, with the most wonderful lights on the river-that haunting river Nile; white walled palaces, backed by towering palm trees, gleaming out on the opposite shore; a fleet of boats with their beautiful, slanting sails moving so slowly that they seemed not to move at al[l] until suddenly you found they had vanished around a bend.  Before our guests arrived we were immensely amused by a little scene enacted on [the] bank to which the Beduin is tied.  We have a snow-white cock and three hens, a gorgeous drake and three ducks which we take with us when we set sail, and which made the voyage up the river last year.  The ducks were off visiting a neighboring dahabeah yesterday when we arrived, but when whistled for came paddling up for dear life.  In the meantime the cock and hens had wandered along the bank till they arrived at the pla[ce] close to the boat, which the drake regards as his own domain.  Instantly the drake waddled out of the water and made for the cock, dabbing at hi[s] legs until he drove him off.  In his pride of victory and the attitude he struck he really looked like Napoleon. 

Our guests were Prof. Sayle, an Oxford Don, explorer and scientist, Artin Pasha, an Armenian archaeologist of distinction, and an Egyptian gentleman, Claudius Bey, whose hair turned snow white a few years ago when upon going on board a steamer, just landed in Alexandria, to meet his wife - he found her lying in her stateroom with her throat cut.  She had been murdered by a steward.

I talked with Prof. Sayle for some time, or rather I listened while he talked.  He told me some inside history about Gordon, which was absorbingly interesting, - particularly so to me as Gordon has always been on[e] of my heroes.  We had expected to move onto the dahabeah today and sail tomorrow but we’ve been delayed a day.  Not that I care - for I’ve not begun to see the wonders of this city.  After church yesterday morning [page 6; hw 21] Harry Burton and I went to see the Blue Mosque, -a beautiful, half ruined structure, parts of whose walls are covered with superb Persian tiles in blue and white.  Hundreds of young men and boys were sitting about in groups on the floor reciting the Koran aloud.  The weather is heavenly.  We wear our winter clothes and Cousin Theodore declares it cold, but I am basking in warmth, except in the evening.

Give my dear love to Mr. and Mrs. Eells and the young people.  The Sister-Kittie is in high favor and I am very happy. 

A Happy, Happy New Year to you my darling.
					Your loving
						Mim

						Monday, 16 December, 1912