
On the Nile somewhere between Roda and Asyut, and about 180 miles from Cairo. 
				DAHABYA BEDUIN
					EGYPT

Darling Gopher -	This is the best paper and I shall not use it often in writing to you, but I am giving you a treat as long as this is my first letter to you from the boat.  I’d give anything if you were here.  It is impossible to convey by written description any adequate idea of t[he] incomparable river and the scenes through which it winds.  And how it winds! We almost ... the compass in our meandering.  And it would take a whole day’s writing, and result in a letter you would carry about with you - possibly - but never read, if I tried to describe the variety of scenery.  The principal towns are on the west shore, and it is on that shore that the railroad from Cairo to Luxor runs, and there is enough of ceaseless interest on that side to hold you spellbound from the cool early morning through the glowing day tothe [sic; to the] moonlit dusk.  But it’s nothing to the Eastern Shore with its desert stretches,  its cultivated str[eets?] and terraces, its palm groves, its native villages so absolutely fascinating that each one fills me with delight, some of them are are walled abou[t] and those always have towering palms growing within the walls;  the unwalled ones are sometimes hard to distinguish from the desert sand out of which they rise and the desert hills into which they melt without one speck of anything green about them.  And always on that magic Eastern Shore the fierce Arabian hills which follow us all the way to Luxor, sometimes far in the distance, sometimes in the foreground.  Absolutely bleak and bare, of the strangest shapes, long stretches of them where surely no human foot has ever been, then long stretches where they have been quarried for building stone, or tunneled for tombs.  Yesterday morning we sailed close to the foot of the gigantic limestone cliffs that rose precipitously out of the river, where men in white robes clinging t[o] ledges were prying off great blocks of rock that came rolling and crashi[ng] to the water’s edge to be loaded on barges.  The sunlight on this scene made a blinding glare.  Ang [sic; And] the people - the picturesque people - no stretch so barren but that you can always see those stately shrouded figures, working in the fields, at the Shadufs, fishing, sitting motionless brooding by the river, praying with their faces to the East, women filling their water jars and striding up the bank with the full jars on their heads, disdaining to touch them even with one hand, people going and coming along the road - on foot, on donkeys, on camels (always camels and donkeys everywhere), flocks feeding by the shore shepherded by one or two cloaked and hooded figures.  And on the river itself great barges loaded with cotton, with grain, with water jars packed so that they look like cream colored cannon balls, - or merely boats filled with [page 7] people, but each and every craft carrying the lateen sail, so beautifu[l] in its sweep even when its canvas is a crazy mess of tatters.

We are almost criminally comfortable, and systematically over-fed - or would be if we ate all that was set before us.  The Beduin draws only 14 inches of water, and being towed, slides forward with such a total absence of motion that if it were not for the scenery slipping by we w[ould] not know we were moving at all.  There are 22 people on board just to take care of us four.  We tie up every night anywhere we happen to be at sunset.  The tying-up process is as follows.  We draw up to the bank.  One of the crew goes ashore with the anchor on his shoulder and worries it into the sane [sic; sand].  Two of the crew carry huge wooden pins as b[ig] as hitching posts, ashore and two more of the crew armed with mallets made of sections of tree trunk hammer the pins into the sand and we ar[e] tied to those.  Jones is always armed in case we are lying near a nati[ve] village that might be inclined to depredations.

We hope to reach Asyut tonight where there ought to be much mail awaiting us, and where this will be posted.  We do not expect to reach Luxo[r] till the 21st at the earliest.  Goodbye for now my Darling.  It’s a month today since we sailed and this is my 4th letter to you besides pst [sic; post] cards.  I shall be very anxious to hear how you are after your lit[tle] operation, so don’t fail to carry out the instructions I sent you in m[y] last about having someone write to me at once. 
							God bless my boy
							       With all my love 
								        Your Mim

							Dahabya Beduin
							On the Nile - tied up near
Nag Hamadi, Friday 20 Dec. 1912