

Best Beloved -		Your letter of the 9th has just come and it made me weep - I feel so awfully about Crosson Hayes.  What a perfectly dreadful thing to have happen.  The thought of what he must have suffered made me feel so sick I didn’t want any luncheon, and I’m so low in my mind I’m afraid this wont be a cheerful letter. 

And now I want to explain why I’ve written so much more elaborate letters to Adeline than to you.  I knew she was going to miss me more even than you, because she lives such a shut-in life with so few distractions and almost no occupations; and so I have written those letters to her as full[y?] and as well as my very limited leisure permitted.  Then, too, I truly would not quite have dared to write such long screeds to you for fear you wouldn’t read them.  Very few young men have the patience to read long letters.  Edward Firth told me that he sometimes carried a letter from his mother for a week in his pocket without reading it.  Of course I know you wouldn’t do that, for our relations with each other are quite [page 19; hw 34] different from those of Edward and his mother.  I’m very flattered that you "had a wonderful time" reading all that manuscript in a bunch.  I’m so very sorry you missed that lecture by Mr. Mercer, and I would love to have had you meet him.  I never knew him myself, but Ed[ward/win?] and Grace knew him, and were there part of the time with him, if I’m not mistaken.  I wish I knew whether the mines are paying and whether its Mrs. Twombly who is doing the mining now that her husband is dead.  The Milligan Mining Co. of which your uncle is President is the "Keweenaw Land Association, and I only wish I had some stock in it.  I’m still somewhat lame from my rheumatism, so that I’ve been on my donkey only once in almost three weeks.  That was last Monday and it started up the pain in my leg again so that I’ve had to forego riding since.  It makes me wild to miss so much time and lose so many opportunities, but I’m glad but it’s I and not Doris - for the years have, as the[y] ought, brought something of the philosophical mind to me, and I don’t mi[nd] it as much as she would.  She and Cousin T. rode over to the diggings this afternoon and brought back interesting news.  Harry has been excavating a palace of Rameses III and has found some very extraordinary windows (it was not supposed they had windows in that period) and also a couple of bathrooms.  I went for a long walk with a sailor to take care of me, - a little too long, for the home stretch through heavy sand was about all I could manage. 

Just before we arrived in Africa I said one day to Doris that I imagi[ned] we’d meet so many people we knew that the Nile would be like Chapel St.  She promptly bet me $5 that we wouldn't meet more than three sets of people that we knew.  She has lost, of course, more than twice over.  They’ve been quite thick recently.  Saturday a.m. Doris and Janet Dodg[e] cavorted about Karnak together, and in the afternoon I had the Dodge family to tea at the Winter Palace.  Sunday after church I had a litt[le] chat with Mrs. Daniel Eaton of Sachem Street.  Tuesday a.m. Mrs. Eaton came to call; Tuesday afternoon that nice Mr. Weston (you remember him first in Newport and then in Paris) turned up; and that night at the [dance] at the Winter Palace Doris bostoned most of the evening with Newton B[yers] and saw the Romeyns.  Wednesday I went over to call on the Romeyns, [and] Mrs. R. must have been really glad to see me because she kissed me.  [They] left for Aswan the next morning, but we shall see them again in Cairo if not before.  I took tea with Mr. Weston Wednesday at the W. Palace.  He asked a great deal about you and wanted me to be sure to give you his warm regards.  He has been a full-fledged Prof. at Williams for t[hree/hirty?] years now. 

I had already written to Manson & Co. before your letter came asking them to send you a check for $125.  If that isn’t enough to cover your Christmas expenses write me what I still owe you. 

We are off on Saturday for Aswan.  Up to March 20 send letters as heretofore - Shepheard’s, Cairo.  After that care Theo. M. Davis, Esq[.] Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co. Paris, France. 

Please give Crosson Hays my love and tell him it is splended to hear of courage like his. I think he is probably made of the same sort of stuff as that superb Captain Oates in the South Pole party, who after suffering for weeks without a murmur walked out into the blizzard and [page 20; hw 35] lost himself so as not to be a drag upon the rest. 		I feel almost as sorry for the unhappy fellow whose skate struck Crosson as I do for him.  It would be so hideous to carry through life the memory of havi[ng] done a thing like that even if it was utterly unavoidable.  I hope you won’t forget to tell me in your next how he is coming on.

I shall have to give your love to Wadi Halfa, Sugar’s successor.  I've never set eyes on Sugar since the day long ago when I got off him bouncing and braying on an embankment and vowed I’d not ride him again. 

Good night, my Darling.  I do get so terribly homesick for you sometimes that I’d give all the pomp and circumstance of Egypt to be back at 615 Orange St. 

God bless you and keep you safe. 
							Your loving 
								  Mim.
				
						    	     Aswan, 5 March, 1913