

Darling Gopher -	Your letter of the 8th arrived today, - fift[een] days is pretty quick work, the quickest possible I fancy.  I was awf[ully] glad to get it, and I am also glad to be able to tell you that it’s quite all right with Mr. Eells as well as with Mrs., for I had a fi[ne?] long letter from him on Sunday expressing much disappointment, but [no?] traces of annoyance at your failure to come to Cleveland.  He is so sensitive I was afraid he might think you went to Savannah merely because you preferred to.  Congratulations on having passed your exams [and] also on having done the nice thing at Christmas by Nan, and others i[ncluding?] your grandmother.  By the way, did you really - as man to man, mind [?] like your waistcoat?  Doris and I had an argument over it.  She mai[ntained?] you would think it vulgarly loud, while I insisted that there was n[o use] in getting a fancy waistcoat unless it was fancy, and I thought it w[ould] go very well with the Oxford grey clothes I made you get.  Bud Talb[ott?] had already, in a letter to me, broken the horrid news about Lefty [Flynn.?]  Cloister has certainly got a black eye this winter, nicht wahr? 

Various exciting things have happened "all in the blue, unclouded w[eeks"?] since my last letter.  On Sunday Doris and Cousin T., mounted on th[eir?] donkeys and accompanied by the peerless Jones, basely deserted Cous[in] [page 14; hw 29] Emma and me and trotted over to the Valley to spend the night’ while we had to sit tamely on deck like perfect ladies, and dispense tea and cakes to strange Americans from Buffalo whom we had never seen before.  Sir Gaston Maspero was to join them the next morning at the Tombs and pronounce judgement on the red granite sarcophagus.  The next afternoon I had just got back from a long walk (accompanied by a sailor with a heavy stick,) packed with fleas which I had annexed in a native village I suddenly found myself in; and was having tea on deck in company with th[e] Contessa Contardone and Mr. Tremaine when the cavalcade returned from the Valley.  It had quite the effect in a mild way of explorers returning from the African desert as they came in single file across the sands; fir[st] the sumpter mule (so to speak) with the luggage, then Cousin T., Doris & Jones with the donkey boys running beside them, and Julius Caesar braying his head off as they came.  Doris was beaming.  She had had the most wonderful time with Maspero who had lunched with them in the House in the Valley and who talked as she never had heard anyone talk before.  He pronounced the sarcophagus a treasure, wants it for the Museum in Cairo, but also wants Cousin Theodore to pay the insignificant sum of 250 poinds [sic: pounds] sterling for its transportation there!

The Contessa invited Doris and me to go on a picnic the next day at the great temple of Medinet Habu, to see the magic performances of a noted Arab snake-charmer she had persuaded to come down from Esneh for the purpose.  We went, and it was an extraordinary experience.  (Doris had a nasty spill on the way out.  Her donkey stepped into a pitfall, flung her, fell on her and kicked her, but she insisted on going on, with her usual pluck, and in the end suffered no serious effects).  I simply haven’t the time to give you an account of what happened at the ruins.  It was both dramatic and astounding.  The Arab stalking in front of the picnic, who all straggled after him, recited some sort of incantation in a loud clear voice, and lured snakes from out of thornbushes on the desert and the coy cobra from chinks in the temple wall. 

Yesterday I played in a tennis tournament at the Winter Palace and carried off a cup (the 1st Prize),- not by my own prowess but by that of my partner, a very nice Scotchman named MacNaugton who played a corking game. 

This afternoon D. & I went over there again on invitation to watch a rather mild but quite amusing gymkhana, and enjoyed ourselves immensely.  And now I must turn in and get some of that sleep that I seem to require more here than anywhere else in the world.		I suppose now you cannot get that operation done till the Spring vacation. I wonder if postponing it was wise. 
							Oceans of love, dearest, from
									Your Mim. 

							West Bank at Luxor
							31 January, 1913