 PAGE 116Grand Hotel - Naples - Nov. 26, 1902.       Sailed from New York, Nov. 15 on SS. Augusta Victoria - a most comfortable clean ship - with many pleasant passengers.  Mrs. Woodworth of Rome among them - and Gen Sawtelle and his wife, and Miss Munroe, old acquaintances from Englewood.  My big deck cabin with its little sitting room was charming.  Summer seas and skies all the way.  Arrived about 8 o’clock this morning - David Constantini meeting us.  He has brought down from Florence some pictures, and a wonderful Madonna and child in ivory - French of the best period - things that Theodore had bought on his recommendation some weeks since.  A magnificent head, said to be by Velasquez, a monk by Tura, and two other pictures.  This hotel quite empty.  We get off tomorrow for Port Said on the Princess Irene.Shepheards - Cairo - Dec. 1st.       Arrived this morning very early after the most beautiful passage I ever had on the Mediterranean.  The big ship most comfortable, and so interesting with its crowd of passengers from all quarters of the earth, going out to all ends of the earth.  We had at our little table 2 Indian Princesses.  The Princesses Daleep Singh - from London, where they have always lived, going out to India for the first time.  They were pleasant and interesting, the older girl amazed us by telling us that she had been in America and studied Medicine for a year at a PAGE 117college in Chicago.  Eliza Dewey got quite intimate with them.  The first morning out from Naples we passed Stromboli, smoking violently - but the eruption was apparently over.  I got out of bed to look at it - it being fortunately on my side.  Had a long wait at the Custom House at Port Said, but got our train and reached here at 5 o’clock - Salah and most of our crew waiting for us.  We are in our usual appartment looking on to the garden.  Shepheard’s is empty - and indeed Cairo is said to be the same.Cairo, Dec. 10th.       A busy week - the Beduin is ready, and we go on board tomorrow, we found all our friends here.  The nice Quibells - v. Bissing, Weigall, Newberry. Sayce et all.  Mrs. Tytus and Robb started up a few days after our arrival, expecting to reach Aswân in time for the Dam festivities - everybody has dined with us.  Weigall presented one evening 2 friends of his - young officers in the 2d Rifle Brigade now here after 3 years in S. Africa.  Stevenson, a cousin of Lord Dufferin, and Sir John Wilmot - nice young fellows.  They dined with us afterwards.  Cairo is absolutely deserted.  If there is a season, it will be a very late one.  It seems pleasanter than usual to me in Cairo - there being so few tourists.Thursday, Dec. 11.       Came on board this morning - South wind, and a crowd of people to tea.  Found such lovely flowers from Mrs. Sandwith and Newberry.PAGE 118Friday, Dec. 12.       Mr. Hargate joined us yesterday, and came up to Sakkarah with us.  We started at noon, in a fine north wind, and brought up at Bedrasheen in 2 hours!Dec. 13. Saturday.       A very cold grey day.  Mr. Hargate went back to Cairo this morning and Theodore, Eliza and I went off for Sakkarah.  I in my donkey chair.  The land is either covered with water from the river to the edge of the desert, or the water has just receded in places - making quite a novel effect for us, the conditions being the same as those between Cairo and the Pyramids the other day, where instead of green fields, boats were sailing about on the water.  The rise of the Nile was so late this year, coming indeed when every one was quite hopeless and we doubted if we could get up the river - that now we get the sights of the inundation, and it is most interesting to us.  The present condition is what prevailed in September.  There was positively no colour today but in the palm trees - the beautiful vivid green fields through which we generally ride, were now under water, or the fellaheen were preparing the black mud, from which the water had receded, for sowing.  It was too, the darkest day I ever saw in Egypt, without a gleam of sunshine, and a strong cold wind blowing, and I was uncomfortable in my chair, with no exercise to warm me.  We visited the tomb of Unas, Ptah Hotep, and lunched on the terrace of Mariettes, with the dogs, and cats and doves and the cold wind blew the sand upon us.  When we went to the PAGE 119Serapeum, the tomb of Thi and Mera - and came home glad to reach here.Third Sunday in Advent. Dec. 14.       A good, steady wind brought us today to our landing near Wasta - 40 miles.  The benediction of an Egyptian full moon is now upon us - wonderful.Monday, Dec. 15.       Did not start until one o’clock - waiting for mail etc.  Came 15 miles.  A beautiful day - sunset and night.  A year ago today we were only 5 miles above Wasta.Tuesday, Dec. 16.       Made 10 miles and are lying 3 miles below Benisoef, almost on identical spot of same date of last year.  Beautiful day.  Theodore has a heavy cold.Wednesday, Dec. 17.       An impenetrable fog surrounded us this morning - light fitful winds during the day, trackings and pulling to an anchor brought us about half way between Bibeh and Fashen.  Very busy housekeeping and writing letters - 8 miles.Thursday, Dec. 18.       26 miles.	Sailed from eleven o’clock and passed Fashen and are PAGE 120lying 5 miles above Maghaghah.Friday, Dec. 19.       17 miles.  	Light winds until 6 P.M.  passed Shekh Fadil and are 7 miles above it.  Four days ago we began writing letters for Minieh which we hoped to reach that evening - we are about 27 miles from it now.Saturday, Dec. 20.       7 miles.	We started out on an east wind that served us well where we were lying - and we got about an awkward curve.  The wind then drew out ahead and we tied up about 12 o’clock - where we are now lying.Fourth Sunday in Advent.  Dec. 21.       2 miles.	Strong south wind all day - tracked at intervals.Monday, Dec. 22.       No progress - moved a few yards to better ground - a wide firm sand bank - and had a big wash - fowls all turned out.Tuesday, Dec. 23.       No miles.  Sent the Dervish across the country with our mail bag - to Minia - also for supplies - we had no meat - no butter - no yeast.  He brought a great mail in the evening.PAGE 121Wednesday, Dec. 24.       Again no progress.  Our big high mud bank grows a trifle wearisome - but I am very busy, doing some of the things I have not had time for during the summer - wind still strong from the south.Christmas Day - Dec. 25.       A very cold wind blowing - I was not outside a moment.  Both our little stoves going - a rather dull Xmas.  Eliza much amused with the present giving to the sailors.  At half past 3 o’clock the wind pulled about to the West, and we sailed to within 5 miles of Minia.19 miles.Friday, Dec. 26.       Reached Minia about noon - and started again at 2:30 tying up at Beni Hassan at 5 o’clock.Saturday, Dec. 27.       A very cold night and morning - Thermometer down to 35 on my cabana - and 48 in my room!  Theodore and Eliza went off to the tombs - I stayed and walked on the sand, hoping to get warm.  They came back at nearly 1 o’clock followed by Mr. Garstang who is working here at the tombs - and making most interesting discoveries.  Theo. and Eliza are enthusiastic over what they saw.  He came to lunch - found him pleasant, made 8 miles starting at 2 o’clock - and we suppose ourselves to be about 3 miles of Rhodah.PAGE 1221st Sunday after Christmas - Dec. 28.       6 miles.	Very still until after 2 o’clock - when we moved off and reached Rodah by 3 o’clock.  Stopped for half an hour and the rest went ashore then sailed about 3 miles.Monday, Dec. 29.       35 miles.	An encouraging day - we began with a light wind and finished at 5:30 having had a fine wind all day.  Passed Melawi -Deirout, and are lying 3 miles below Manfalut tonight.Tuesday, Dec. 30.       19 miles.	A very fair progress- as we had no wind until 3 o’clock.  Weather still cool.Wednesday, Dec. 31.       18 miles.	No wind until noon - we reached Asyût, found the gates of the weir open - river all one level - no boats about - the whole thing to ourselves.  Found the “Ishtar” lying there - and Theo. and Eliza who walked to the P.O. met Mr. Sayce.  We started again at 4 o’clock - and are now 8 miles above Asyût.Thursday, Jan. 1. 1903.       21 miles.	Very light winds brought us to Gou tonight, passing Aboutig about noon.  We have a lovely young moon.PAGE 123Friday, Jan. 2.       43 miles.	We sailed more or less from 7 until 6 this evening and are tied up at Akmim.  Stopped at Sohag for half an hour for mail.  Day warmer.  We are hoping the cold weather will soon leave us.Saturday, Jan. 3.       19-1/2 miles.	Started at 7:30 and pulled up at 12:30 at Reisner’s Camp, nearly opposite Girgah.  This afternoon Theo. and Eliza walked over to the camp.  I declined going as a gale was blowing.  They came back about 6 - not very enthusiastic, saying Lythgoe and his wife, and Mr. Mace would come over and dine - which they did, and we had a pleasant evening.Second Sunday after Christmas.	Jan. 4.       21 miles.	We started out with a very good wind at 7 o’clock which increased and we pulled up at Balliana a little after 9 o’clock.  Theo. and Jones went ashore for the mail, but were soon back - and we were off again sailing finely - until about 2 o’clock in making the great turn over to Gebel et-Tarif, the wind was too strong and we had to pull up - and could not get off until about 4 o’clock.  At 7 o’clock we went with a tremendous bump on to the sand.  I was lying half asleep in my room, and for a moment I thought the end of all things had come.  We soon got off however and sailed until nearly 8 - when we tied up opposite the great cliffs of the Gebel PAGE 124 (number missing)which are beautiful tonight in the moonlight.  This morning we had quite a race with the big Rameses the Great.  She was a long time overhauling us - and then we were neck to neck for awhile.  Everybody on the steamer engaged in photographing us.  Last night the gale was great - I could not sleep after 5 o’clock there was such a varied assortment of noises about my room.Monday, Jan. 5.       10 miles.	Our aft sail was torn a little in the high wind of yesterday, but the men succeeded in mending it this morning early, and we were off at 9 o’clock - reaching Nag Hamadi at 10:30 just as usual a little late for the bridge and had to wait until 2:30 to get through - but as we had a good wind, with all the river to ourselves, and no other boats, we sailed through in fine style.  We came to grief near Kasr es Said just as we did once before, but happily this time it was not the rocks.  Very cold today.Tuesday, Jan. 6.  Epiphany.       20 miles.	Between the wind and tracking we kept going until after 4 o’clock - weather very cold but bright.Wednesday, Jan. 7.       26 miles.	We started out at 8 o’clock - reached Dendereh at 11 - Theodore and Eliza walked to the Temple.  Off again before one o’clock - and sailed until 6 - warmer - beautiful - lovely moon.PAGE 125Thursday, Jan. 8.       25-1/2 miles.	Reached Luxor at 5 o’clock after delightful day.  Found the “Scarab” tied to the sand opposite Luxor - and Robb  boarded us before we got to our moorings above the Castle - almost the identical spot of last year.  The bank has changed however and is not so good and very high - only 2 boats beside our own here - one is the Scarab, the other the Mond dahabeah.  Found our mail and good news.  We all said as we drew up, we wondered if our friend the black dog Sakees, would find us out - and just after the lamps were lighted and we were seated about the table littered with letters and papers, we heard his well known bark - and very soon his shrieks of delight, and going to the window I saw in the bright moonlight Sakees jumping about Jones and crying with delight.  We made the distance from Cairo this year in the same number of days we did last year! only arriving on the 7th, starting one day earlier.Friday, Jan. 9.       Theodore and Eliza went to Karnak this morning - we went this afternooon to the Scarab for tea, and to hear the news.  The warmest day we have had.Saturday, Jan. 10.       A lovely cool day.  Theo. and Eliza went to the Luxor Temple this morning - and we all went over to Carters this afternoon to have tea with him - he having been in a moment this morning.  It was so good PAGE 126to be taking that familiar ride again, on that nicest of all donkeys “Yankee Doodle, Plymouth Rock” who has carried me every winter for 5 years.  But how sad we found these wide fields which are generally so green and flourishing - now utterly bare, and desert, because of the late Nile.  We saw at Carters, the two wonderful leathern aprons that he found in the tomb he opened last year for Theodore - the most wonderful I have seen in Egypt.  Poor little San Toy, Carter’s young donkey, in whose education and development we all took such an interest, met his death in a tragic way this summer.  He was wandering about the drive, when he encountered a cobra, and was dead in 3 hours, bitten in the mouth.  The men called Carter, who went out with his gun and blew the cobra to pieces - but the donkey was already swaying about on his legs and nothing could save him.  He used to go through the house looking for Carter, and when he found him he would bray with delight.  Dr. and Mrs. Campbell dined with us this evening, and Mr. and Mrs. Murch, and Dr. Budge called.  Mr. Insinger sent down some flowers - he, poor man, has been very ill for some weeks.Jan. 11.  1st Sunday after Epiphany.       A quiet day - Dr. Budge came to dine - he was very interesting and amusing - and talked from the time we sat down to dinner, until after eleven when he went home.  All his talk was upon his experience in Mesopotamia.  He said such an amusing thing of Petrie - some years ago he (Budge) was in Egypt, and Petrie joined him and his friends somewhere along the river, after a journey of some days in a native PAGE 127boat.  “He was dirty, verminous, and saving your presence, Madame, as odouriferous as a pole cat.”Monday, Jan. 12.       Into town this morning - and home this afternoon.  Miss Buchanan and Nubawiya came and had tea with me.  What a pleasant surprise to see that girl - her improvement - and her changed surroundings.  She has grown - is stouter - and Miss Buchanan can hardly say enough in praise of her.  The Istar has arrived I had a note from Mr. Sayce this afternoon.Tuesday, Jan. 13.       A long day at the Tombs of the Kings - and a pleasant one.  I went in my chair with 2 good donkeys.  We entered Amenhotep’s (II) tomb - now lighted with electricity, showing arrangement and decoration delightfully.  The rifled mummy has been restored to his sarcophagus, and decently wrapped with the torn mummy cloths - and Carter has arranged the whole thing most artistically.  A shaded electric light is at the head of the sarcophagus, throwing the fine face into splendid relief - and when all the other lights were extinguished, the effect was solemn and impressive.  Carter has done wonderful work over there in a dozen different ways - all the tombs, the principal ones, are lighted - no more stumbling about amongst yawning pits and rough stair cases, with flickering candles dropping wax all over one.PAGE 128Wednesday, Jan. 14.       Went in to Luxor this morning - first to Dr. Murches - then to see Miss Buchanan at the Girls School.  She took us about everywhere even to the tops of the house where the kitchen is - and showed us the bakery - and told us how the girls made the bread.  I stayed at home in the afternoon - to enjoy the quiet and the lovely effects on the mountains - Mr. Choate called.Thursday, Jan. 15.       A good warm day - Baron v. Bissing arrived from Luxor.  Mr. Spring-Rice here for tea.Friday, Jan 16.       We went up to the Castle to see poor Mr. Insinger whom we found stretched out upon a lounge in the garden, looking a very ghost.  He was not allowed to speak much, and so we went into the house and talked to Mrs. I. who poured out all her woes and anxieties to me, poor thing.  I do feel sorry for that man!  Mr. Spring-Rice and Carter here for lunch - and Theo. and Eliza went across to see some of the private tombs - and I went to the “Scarab” for Mrs. Tytus and we went to have tea with Mr. Sayce - going back afterwards for the others to the Scarab - Mr. Sayce and Mr. Brice dined here.  It is very extraordinary the continued absence of wind.  We want to start for Aswân tomorrow if we can get a breath of wind.  Mr. Sayce has been preaching all winter that we would not have north wind - and it does look like it.PAGE 129Saturday, Jan. 17.       We started at noon today in the merest zephyr - and managed by tracking to get within a mile of Erment.  Salah is behind us with his dahabeah and French family.  8 miles.Sunday, Jan 18. 2d Sunday after Epiphany.       30 miles.	To our surprise and deep satisfaction the wind came gently up about 10 o’clock and growing stronger, blew steadily - and we tied up 4 miles above Esna at 7 o’clock.  We had intended seeing the Temple, but could not afford to lose such a wind.  A great excitement after leaving Esna - a ferry-boat collided with us - no damage done - though it looked serious for a moment.  Quite warm.Monday, Jan. 19.       67 miles!	We started at 6:30 - the N. wind blew all night and has continued all day.  We have done splendidly making our best Nile record.  We tied up at 6 o’clock just a mile below Kom Ombos.  To our surprise Salah’s boat has kept near us all day - and is now just behind us.Tuesday, Jan. 20.  Aswân.       26-1/2 miles.	Started at 7 o’clock - arrived at Aswân at 12 o’clock.  The wind having become so violent, that we had to furl both sails, and put up the felucca one.  The air was thick with sand, and PAGE 130Aswân invisible - so we pulled up just below the town - where we are now lying - just 3 days from Luxor - our best record for this journey.  Very cold - both of our stoves going most of the time.Wednesday, Jan. 21.       We all started for the Grenfell tombs this morning and to reconnoiter the river for a good place.  The wind was cold indeed.  The rest climbed the hill - but I remained in the felucca below, and wrote a letter and basked in the sun.  Carter appeared unexpectedly while we were at breakfast, and announced the thrilling news that he had found the tomb of Thothmes IV and that he and Robb Tytus went into it - finding a splendid sarcophagus, beautiful wall decorations and floor strewn with blue pottery more or less broken etc.  This is a fine success both for Theo. and for Carter and Theo. immediately decided that instead of staying here a week, he would make it 3 days.Thursday, Jan. 22.       Went over by rail to Philae and saw it in its wonderful metamorphosis -surrounded by water - only the temple of Isis dry and approachable - in the great waste of waters the palms trees were showing their heads, and scattered temples and rocks.  Pharaoh’s Bed standing alone - the water half way up the columns - our first surprise was the appearance of the water almost into the desert - the village of Shellal had entirely disappeared.  We took one of the Cataract boats,PAGE 131and rowed about down the long colonnades submerged almost to their capitals - and then past Pharaoh’s Bed and landed from the boat at the very door sill of the Temple of Isis.  We could walk about in the temple itself, but the court was many feet under water.  We spent most of the 2 hours we had there on the Roof, looking at the strangely changed country.  Got home in time for luncheon:  at 2:30 we crossed over to the Cataract Hotel Theo. and Eliza took donkeys, v. Bissing and I a really comfortable victoria, with broad tired sand wheels, and went to the Barrage.  It was cold and dusty, with a high wind.  At the Barrage we took one of the little trolley cars, and met Mr. May the Superintendent and rode across the Barrage - stopping here and there to inspect certain things.  It is the most stupendous work of man I have ever seen.  A mighty creation in solid stone which is now holding up a lake of water that extends to Korosko 120 miles away!  Eight of the sluices were open, through which the water raged through like Niagara.  The Cataract is a thing of the past - the water lying in quiet pools among the rocks.  It was an altogether remarkable thing.  It was pleasant to reach home - its shelter and cleanliness and refreshing tea.  Dr. Cait came over and had tea with us - and Carter returning from Kom Ombo, dined with us.Friday, Jan. 23.       At home all day.  A high north wind blowing and much dust - and the outside of the boat in great confusion, the big boom coming down, and all that business - the men with all they could get to help PAGE 132them, worked until late in the afternoon.  The rest went over to the convent St. Simeon - Mrs. Cox and her daughter called - and two German friends of v. Bissing came to tea - nice young fellows - awfully shy about their English.  We hope to start down tomorrow.  But the north wind still holds.Saturday, Jan. 24.       Went over to the Cataract Hotel this morning early to see the Barnet Wendles - then walked into Aswân - hurried home, as the wind was falling with signs of change.  Started about 2 o’clock - very quiet, with signs of rain - and very warm.  Are now, within 14 miles of Kom Ombo - having made 12 miles.Sunday, 3d after Epiphany.       29 miles.	Light head winds or calm all day - and warmer - reached Silsilis at 11 o’clock and went up to the Temple - were off again by one - and are now at Silsilis - and will wait tomorrow until Eliza and v. Bissing have seen it.Monday, Jan. 26.       4 miles.	A difficult day - with strong n. wind - have made I suppose 4 or 5 miles since leaving Silsilis.Tuesday, Jan. 27.       We have only made a few yards today - the wind has been very PAGE 133high - and it was impossible to stay out in the stream.  The Zenet-el-Nil, and the Istar, passed up this afternoon.Wednesday, Jan. 28.       4 miles.	We suppose we may have moved on about 4 miles.  But the wind has been savage all the afternoon - and very cold.  This north wind has now been raging since the 17th, every day we hope it may blow itself out.Thursday, Jan. 29.       22 miles.	arrived at Edfou at 10:30 in a light wind - having started very early.  We climbed the steep bank, and had the usual skirmish with the disagreeable Edfou people, took donkeys and went to the Temple.  Carter has been doing some very important engineering work there - the great stones of the roof having become very unsettled and one having fallen - I had the most charming donkey I ever mounted - every pace was good.  I should like to own him - we have come about 5 miles below Edfou - cold.Friday, Jan. 30.       8 miles.	Began rowing before daylight - about 9 o’clock we were forced to the bank by the raging wind, where we still lie.  El Kab is in plain sight.PAGE 134Saturday, Jan. 31.       20 miles.	Started at 6 A.M. and pulled up here - Esna - about 8 o’clock P.M.  Rather warmer today.  I have spent the whole day on deck - the air has been so fine - and the cliffs and mountains are superb, and with such colouring - and so much of the native life to be seen along the shore.  While watching through the glass a fine herd of goats and sheep, and thinking of the old Biblical characters, I saw a real picture - sitting under the lee of a straw barrier of a shadoof, was an old man with a white beard, who was stripped to the waist, looking through his two garments for unpleasant intruders, by his side a basket, a bowl and a stick - having finished his search he put on first one and then the other garment, stood up, shook himself well into their loose folds, then sat down again and with great composure resumed his occupation, and I then saw that he was making a fishing net.  It was like a picture out of Kim.Sunday, Feb. 1st.       34-1/2 miles.	We started before 5 o’clock in a most discouraging head wind, but with the aid of our board along at times until about 10 o’clock, when the men were able to take to their oars, and they worked manfully until at 8 o’clock, we brought up at Luxor, near the sand banks.  Bob Tytus arrived almost before we stopped having been on the watch.  He reported Maspero still waiting for us to open the tomb of Thothmes IV and Carter very anxious for our arrival.  The day has been heavenly - and I have been on deck the whole of it.PAGE 135Luxor. Feb. 2.       I have had a beautiful day at home.  Newberry and Carter came in for a few moments after breakfast.  Theo. Eliza and v. Bissing went over to the Palace and stopped for tea at Carters - where they were shown the foundation deposits bearing the name of Ma-ka-ra, found by Carter the day before at the digging near the tomb which he had suspected might be hers.  Work has been stopped there - until the tomb of Thothmes has been finished.  It is to be opened tomorrow.Tuesday, Feb. 3d.       We started over early to the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings - I in my chair with my donkeys - all went very well - the day was cool and bright - and the ride was charming.  Fortunately none of the Cookites were there, and we had the whole place to ourselves.  We took Mrs. Tytus with us, and we found there quite a little company - M. Maspero, with two French friends of his, M. Legrain, M. Lacken, Mr. Mond. (pencil note in margin referring to Lacken)  A crowd of Arab boys and men, still handing up baskets of stones and débris.  Carter was not to be seen, he had been down in the tomb since 4 o’clock having slept before it, with his guards.  We waited about half an hour, when he emerged looking like a ghost - his careful man was waiting for him with a thick ulster, which he clapped upon him, and he was given some water and a cigarette.  Then he went down again, saying he would be up in half an hour for us.  He took Newberry and Robb Tytus with him.  Finally he appeared again and said we would enter a few at a time, and asked M. Maspero Theo. and myself to follow him, andPAGE 136 (page # looks like 137 but no gap in text)Jones went along to take care of me.  A huge rope had been carried in, one end held by several workmen outside, and the electrical engineer with a coil of electric wire had preceded us, - holding to the rope, and with Jones to take care of me, I followed Maspero and Theo. 20 ft. or more down an almost perpendicular incline over large loose chips of sandstone.  Then we came to a long incline very steep, and most unpleasantly low, so that we were forced to sit down and scramble along as best we could.  Maspero being so stout had to actually lie down, with his feet sometimes on Carter’s shoulders.  It was a great consolation to have the brilliant electric light.  At the end of this shaft we came to the great well, over which Carter had arranged a suspension[NEED TO INSERT DIAGRAM OF TOMB HERE]Plan of tomb of Thothmes IVPAGE 137bridge and requested only two people should cross at a time.  This well was about 15 ft. square - then we emerged into a hall supported by two pillars.  There was a beautiful decoration of gods and goddesses and emblems around the top of the walls of the well, quite fresh and perfect.  From this hall we scrambled down another steep shaft, and came into a small hall partially choked with débris, the walls beautifully painted and a most interesting hieratic inscription, which reads as follows.“In the eighth year of King Horemheb, on behalf of the King, Thothmes son of Hator came as overseer to restore the wrappings etc. in the splendid place in the West hill”.   Scrambling out of this room we entered the sepulchral hall, which opens at a right angle to the small hall, and runs parallel to the entrance shaft.  This hall has 6 columns, and 2 chapels on either side.  There were no wall decorations here - but the floor of the hall and of the chapels was strewn with a mass of beautiful débris - most of it alas broken.  Carter had placed boards along which we walked, and were requested not to step off of them.  It was astounding to look at the mass of things - statuettes - figures of animals - fragments of embroideries - leather work - and countless bottles and ornaments of heavenly blue colour, and the well known Amenhotep glass.  In one place a charming alabaster face looked up smilingly at me, as if to welcome our coming - of course no one touched any object.  The sarcophagus was magnificent of rose quartzite, covered with admirable inscriptions - and in perfect preservation - thePAGE 138lid had been removed and carefully laid at the side of it.  But the crowning object of interest was the dash board of a war chariot, of leather, beautifully embossed and painted on both sides - in shape like this [insert drawing here] - representing the King driving over prostrate enemies.  Maspero was delighted with this, as it is absolutely unique.  We could not linger long anywhere as the place was so hot, and we had to move on and give place to the others.  The getting up was worse than the going down, and it was a good thing to sit down on the plateau outside the tomb, among the grand cliffs - here Carter had his bed and some chairs - and I thought it must be a grand place to sleep.  We went afterwards to the lunch tomb, and all lunched there - and we were home by 5 o’clock - and tumbled out of our dusty garments and were glad enough to have tea.Wednesday, Feb. 4.       Theodore and v. Bissing went over to the Tombs again this morning and were not home until late.  Eliza spent the morning with her cousin at the Luxor hotel - and I have been living on deck - as it was so warm and delightful.  We had lunch there.Thursday, Feb. 5.       Another day at home.  Mme. Maspero, and all her people came to tea.  I was the only one to receive them.  Theodore and v. Bissing having gone to Karnak and Eliza having gone to bed for the afternoon.  Cooler tonight and much wind.PAGE 139Friday, Feb. 6.       Home again all day - with rather a scare - Theo. having gone over to Luxor with v. Bissing after breakfast, came back soon in a hard chill.  Dr. Campbell who arrived on the Victoria from Aswân came over after lunch to see him and then again this evening.  He thinks it is the result of cold and fatigue, and perhaps a little malaria, and prescribed quinine and more rest!Saturday, Feb. 7.       A howling gale again today - worse than yesterday.  Theodore is better - quite himself - but did not go out.  While at dinner Theo. received a note from Mrs. Gray, saying she had just arrived - and after dinner, I took v. Bissing and we went over to see her.  She is thoroughly enjoying herself - and looks remarkable well.  The Maat looked so attractive.Septuagessima Sunday.	Feb. 8.       Went over to Carters at 10 o’clock this morning - a tremendous wind blowing - and sand flying - had our lunch with us - We went to see the things from the tomb - all spread out in one of Carters rooms - a really splendid show.  I was enchanted.  The wonderful chariot - which is of the finest and most spirited work - the entrancing blue things - many unusual and unique things.  Mrs. Tytus, and Mrs. Gray both came over in the afternoon.PAGE 140Monday, Feb. 9.       Another gale from the north - at home all day.  The beauty of these indescribable nights atones for the cold and windy days.Tuesday, Feb. 10.       A pleasant, almost warm day.  At home all day.  The Barrett Wendles came to tea, and Mrs. Gray and Miss Ghio to dinner.Wednesday, Feb. 11.       Baron v. Bissing went to Cairo today.  Mrs. Tytus and Newberry came to lunch with me - the rest having gone to the Tombs of the Kings.  Mrs. Gray appeared just after dinner on her tug, brilliantly illuminated and wanted us to go down to Karnak and see it by moonlight.  Eliza went.  Nubaweeyeh and Miss Buchanan to tea.Thursday, Feb. 12.       A cool north wind all day.  Theodore took the Wendells over to Carters to see the “find”.  Carter is staying with us.Friday, Feb. 13.       All went over to Carters this afternoon - home in time to receive Mrs. Gray for tea.  Theodore and Carter have abandoned work on the tomb they have been at some time, and have started into Tomb No. 20.  Cold wind all day.PAGE 141Saturday, Feb. 14.       A sweet quiet day to myself - the rest at the tombs of the Kings again.  Mr. and Mrs. Murch, Miss Buchanan, Miss Broderick and a friend to tea.Sexigesima Sunday, Feb. 15.       Another good day - Mrs. Tytus and Bob dined with us.  Carter is with us.Monday, Feb. 16.       Theodore went across with Carter this morning and spent the day there with Newberry.  Bob Tytus came to breakfast.  They went to the Sciapperelli camp to see a tomb he had found - a son of Thothmes III.  It was heaped with ordinary coffins of later times.  The workmen in tomb no. 20 - found today four small alabaster jars, with the cartouche of Hatshepsut - it looks encouraging.Wednesday, Feb. 18.       We have had two warm days - so pleasant last evening.  The Barrett Wendells dined with us, - and tonight Mrs. Metcalfe - such an interesting visit.  Mrs. Tytus and Bob came over late in the afternoon to say goodbye.  Bob is hurrying home to be married to Miss Henness, who was out here last year with her family - a promising marriage - Carter dined on the Scarab, and slept here.PAGE 142Saturday, Feb. 21.       We all went over to the Tombs of the Kings this morning.  It was cold with a high wind - I was in my chair - my hat tied on my head, my jacket and my big long wadded winter cloak with a shawl over my knees - and I was cold as if I were sleigh-riding in America.  Mr. Sayce was with us - we all shivered all day long.  Carter came back with us.Monday, Feb. 23.       Two very windy days have passed - this afternoon we have had a real gale - and have been enveloped in sand.  Mr. Sayce dined with us.Wednesday, Feb. 25.       A warm and delightful day.  We all rode over with Carter to the Roman Temple a mile or two beyond Medinet Habu.  I had never seen it - not interesting, though the ride there was - we had tea on the roof of the little temple.Saturday, Feb. 28.       Another quiet day at home - the rest going over to the Tombs - they brought Carter back with them.First Sunday in Lent - March 1st.       Very calm and warm all day - Mrs. Gray and Miss Ghio came toPAGE 143lunch.  They leave tonight by train for Cairo - Mr. and Mrs. Forbes-Leith to tea - Weigall came this morning.Monday March 2d.       We all went over to Der el-Bahari for tea - it was charming.Thursday, Mar. 5.       Went to Carters for tea - two days ago Eliza and I went to have tea with Miss Buchanan at the School and a pleasant visit - said goodbye to her and Nubaweeya - the latter quite inconsolable.  But it was so good to leave her there, clean, well dressed, improving and under kind and wise care.  We have lingered on here hoping that No. 20 would develope something further - but the shaft is filled with such solid débris that Carter things it will take weeks to clear - so Theodore has decided to have it closed for this season, and we are starting down tomorrow.  Theo. has engaged a tug to meet us at Asyût and to come up after us if we are not found there.  Said goodbye to the Murchs this morning.Saturday, March 7.       The wind has been howling all day - impossible to start - again enveloped in sand - Lythgoe and his wife called this morning.  Newberry came to lunch - we have spent just one month and six days here since we returned from Aswân.PAGE 144Second Sunday in Lent - March 8th.       18 miles.	We made a very early start this morning - when I lifted my curtain to have a peep at the early morning we were just below Karnak.  But the wind rose, and we were forced to tie up at 10:30.  Such lovely nights are beginning now.  I do so love and enjoy them.Monday, Mar. 9th.       26-1/2 miles.	Again the same story - an early start - high wind by 10 o’clock - lying by until about 4 o’clock - we began rowing again, and are now lying opposite Keneh.Tuesday, Mar. 10.       38 miles.	This is the first almost calm day we have had - very hot too.  Brought up at Nagh Hamadi at 6 P.M. and were obliged to anchor in the river, and wait for the opening of the bridge tomorrow.Wednesday, Mar. 11.       Passed the bridge at 8:30 and after struggling against a baffling wind, tied up - having made only 4 miles.Thursday, Mar. 12.       Another all day blow, and made again only 4 miles.PAGE 145Friday, March 13.       10 miles.	Started early, about 4 o’clock - but the wind grew strong and sent us on a rather rocky bank - and before the boat could be stopped, the noise was so frightening that we were all awakened.  No damage - except a little loss of paint.  Later the wind fell, and we pushed on, pulling up at Balliana at noon.  We had an early lunch, then Theo., Weigall and Eliza started for Abydos.  It was hot too.  Weigall left by train at 8 o’clock for Cairo.Saturday, Mar. 14.       58 miles.	Did not start until 7 o’clock - and after making about 3 miles met our welcome tug the “Thothmes” the one Mrs. Gray had.  The sailors gladly put away their oars, she made fast to us, and off we went, smoothly and quickly.  Quite a wind until about 4 o’clock - when a gale began which exceeded anything I have ever seen on the Nile.  We did not stop when we ought, and after the storm broke we could not stop - and had to hold our way in the very teeth of the gale - we were just approaching Gebel el Hiridee - and we kept on well past the mountain until the wind abated a little.  For about half an hour I think we were in real danger.  I stayed on deck, as we all did - thinking if we went over, it would be better to be in the open.Third Sunday in Lent.  Mar. 15.       A fine day and a good run of 68 miles.  bringing up at Monfalout PAGE 146at 8:30.  We almost ran upon the Istar a few miles above Asyût - she was fast on the sand; we cheerfully detached our tug, and sent her to pull Mr. Sayce off, for which he was duly thankful.  Theo. went over to see him, and after we had reached Asyût and were waiting for the lock to open, he came over to see us.  We had to wait 4 hours, and had a pandemonium of a time getting through.Monday, Mar. 16.       79-1/2 miles.	We had more or less of a gale all day - and the tug went upon the sand several times.  Stopped at Minia in the afternoon.  I did not go ashore with the others, the wind was so strong and the air thick with dust.Tuesday, Mar. 17.       89 miles.	Our best day - but very exciting as the river is full of gyassas - some of them on the sand and others beating down upon on us in the reckless way characteristic of them.  We grew to be quite nervous at the tooting of the tug - and the excitement when one big working boat raked us our whole length - but with not much damage - but we feared all our windows on that side would go.  A tremendous uproar!  We are tied up at Wasta.Wednesday, Mar. 18. Cairo.       56 miles.	Tied up at the foot of the old Museum steps wherePAGE 147we generally lie, at 12 o’clock - very sultry indeed - and this evening it has rained smartly.  We were 10 days coming from Luxor - 6 without the tug.Thursday, Mar. 19.       Theodore and Eliza went into town this morning and came back reporting Cairo unbearable.  It is crowded with Americans - extraordinary people.  Mrs. Metcalf at lunch - flower show.  Fritz and Weigall to tea and dinner.Friday, Mar. 20.       We went to the Museum this morning - and it impressed me more than ever as the greatest success in the way of an utter failure, I had ever known.  Saw Baron v. Bissing, and Maspero.  Stopped at Shepheards, a hideous crowd there.  Eliza and I then went to the Bazaar and walked through it - and then saw 2 mosques.  Campbells and Newberry to tea.Saturday, Mar. 21.       Again in town for the morning - and to the Quibells for tea.  Cold, - high winds.Sunday, 4th in Lent.  Mar. 22.       Eliza and I went over to the Zoo this morning, taking Selim and Ismain with us.  Saw some lovely birds.  Newberry to lunch.  The Winslows at tea, all four of them - like a funeral procession - all PAGE 148crêpe and dismalness.  It rained tremendously this evening for about an hour or more.Monday, Mar. 23.       Quite busy this morning arranging and packing.  In the afternoon went into town shopping and meeting Carter who arrived this morning we had tea at Shepheards.  Eliza and I lunched with Mrs. Quibell, to meet Mrs. Alston, wife of Judge Alston the English Judge here - she was Miss Chew of Baltimore - and a nice, sensible looking attractive woman.  A delicious lunch, and a very pleasant visit.  Mr. and Mrs. Quibell dined with us, and played Bridge afterwards.Tuesday, Mar. 24th.       At home all day - very busy - our last day for this season on this precious little boat.  Weather very cold, with high winds and overcast skies.  Our men have been giving us a farewell concert.Wednesday, Mar. 25th.       We left the boat quite sorrowfully this morning and came to our old quarters at the Ghezireh Palace Hotel, stopping on our way at the Museum, where after a little stay we brought Mr. Carter home with us for lunch - and then took him into town, making some visits - among them going to see Miss James at her Nurses’ Home which looked so pleasant.  Mr. Newberry and Baron v. Bissing came to dine.  Cairo is filled to overflowing with masses of Americans.  We stopped this afternoon with PAGE 149Carter at Shepheards for tea - and the crowd and noise were insufferable.  It was nice to drive back to these quiet gardens.Thursday, Mar. 26.       Again at the Museum this A.M. arranging about having our things packed.  Lunched with Newberry at the Angleterre, and an excellent one it was.  Then drove, with him and Carter to the Museum, where M. Maspero had arranged for the unwrapping of the mummy of Thothmes IV.  We found it lying on the table of one of the smaller rooms, and about 30 people there.  Lord and Lady Cromer to whom we were presented, M. Maspero and his wife and some friends, several Egyptologists, and 4 Doctors.  Dr. and Mrs. Campbell and ourselves.  Maspero made a nice little speech, and then the unwrapping began.  It was interesting to see how the original bandages had been replaced and made use of in the old time of Horemheb, when, as the hieratic inscriptions in the tomb showed, the body had been rewrapped after having been robbed in times unknown.  Nothing was found on the body - nor had we expected anything to be found.  It was a thrilling moment when finally the face was uncovered showing a man apparently from 30-35 years of age.  A fine, agreeable, well preserved face - the head looking small, as did the body.  Carter and Newberry had made a bet on the way to the Museum, as to whether the King had been 25 or 30 years of age. - I found 4 little sparrows in my room this morning - almost every night some of them enter before the big windows are closed - and sleep up under the cornices of the curtains, and fly out as soon as the windows are opened in the morning.PAGE 150Friday, Mar. 27.       Shopping and driving this morning - Eliza went to see the Dervishes with the Winslows.  Had quite a tea party this afternoon on the terrace - Quibells, Mrs. Metcalf, Dr. and Mrs. Campbell etc.  Dr. and Mrs. Sandwith dined with us.Saturday, Mar. 28.       More shopping and driving this morning.  Carter lunched with us.  Then Theo. and I took him into town, and afterwards paid our farewell visit to the Beduin.  She was transformed - all shrouded in her summer awnings - everything shut inside, and packed away.  Then we had a drive along the Pyramid road - and stopped for a cup of tea with Mrs. Quibell - Eliza went in town to dine with the Winslows at the Savoy - and attend the dance - and we have had a quiet evening.Thursday, April 2d.   Venice.   Hotel Britannia.       We arrived this afternoon about 6 P.M. from Bologna where we lunched at the Hotel Breen - and afterwards drove about to show Eliza a little of the city and the leaning towers.  We left Cairo at 11 o’clock on Sunday morning the 29th - Weigalls came with us to Port Said, going on the next day by the Egypt to Marseilles.  Newberry was at the station, and all our men drawn up in line - and such salaams and kissing of hands - we had a fairly good passage on the Osiris - and found among the passengers Col. Sir Simon Lockhardt, and his wife, with whom we fraternized.  We waited so long for the Sudan mail on the Egypt that we did PAGE 151not get off until noon on the 30th - reached Brindisi on Wednesday the 1st of April at 6:30 - took the waiting so-called traine de luxe and had the carriage for Turin quite to ourselves - slept well - weather cold everywhere.Friday, April 3d.       We find Lord Roseberry is occupying our usual appartment here and we have corresponding rooms below - just as comfortable but not so grand.  Went first to San Marco of course - and to the Frari and SS. Giovanni e San Paolo.  It was strange to see the Piazetta without the Campanile - and I am now of Theodore’s opinion, that it can be well spared - as it gives an unobstructed view of the Church and Doges Palace.  Venice is looking to her foundations!  It seems to me half the city is under scaffolding - and repairs everywhere going on - the canals crowded with working boats.  The Frari and SS. Gio. e S. Paolo are full of scaffolding - and at the former the great Bellini has been placed for the present in the apse, where a splendid light from the lofty Gothic windows falls upon the incomparable beauty of the picture.Saturday, April 4th.       To the Schiavone church of S. Giorgio this morning, and a delightful visit with the Carpaccios - thence to the Gallery, where we stayed until lunch time.  In the afternoon to the Benson’s, and found them better than usual - and very cheerful and hospitable.  She, poor thing, had been carried down to the garden - where the tulips and daffodils PAGE 152were blooming - always so cheerful, with no complaints - she is a strong and smart personality.Sunday, Palm Sunday, Apr. 5th.       Went early to San Marco - where a solemn service was being held - I had hoped to hear some good music - but was disappointed.  However sat and listened a long time in the gallery to it - and then went out on the balcony by the famous horses, where we could look down on the foundations of the Campanile.  After lunch Theodore and I went out in the gondola and went to 3 churches, but failed to get in any of them, as they were closed - but we had some pleasant surprises in the various “calli” and squares.  We at last gave it up, as the wind was strong and cold, and went home to tea.  Got possession of our old appartment.Monday, April 6.       To the church of the della Vigna, to see the lovely Negroponte Madonna.  But the picture was covered and the sacristan incoercible, so we had to come away.  Thence to Dorigo’s to settle about the marbles - and after luncheon went for a visit to Palazzo Capello - and had a pleasant visit.Tuesday, April 7.       David Constantini appeared this morning for breakfast.  Afterwards Eliza and I went to San Marco, and walked about it, and thenPAGE 153entered and stayed a long time.  What a wonder, a beautiful mystery it is!  Saw the treasury, with its exquisite things.  At home this afternoon.  Playing bridge all the evening.Wednesday, April 8.       Had intended going to Torcello today - but weather too bad.  Went out for a short time in the gondola closed as it was raining, but soon came home, as the wind was high, and the water rough  - and all the rest of the day we have stayed at home - as the storm increased in violence, and grew into a real tempest.  Played Bridge all the afternoon and evening.Thursday, April 9.       Eliza and Theo. and Costantini went out, but I did not until after an early lunch we took the little steamer belonging to this hotel and taking Amelie and Jones with us went out to Torcello - an hours journey took us there.  Then we had a little walk to the strange small interesting church.  Such an ideally forgotten and ancient place - looking so pathetic in its loneliness.  We spent an hour or more rambling about and around it - and on reaching the boat again, found a most attractive looking tea table spread for us in the little  cabin.  Theodore after dinner hearing Mrs. Metcalfe was at the hotel next us went in to see her and brought her over with him.  Soon after Mr. Benson came in - after they went, Bridge as usual.PAGE 154Friday, April 10.   Good Friday.       Went with Mrs. Metcalfe to see some laces at a Mrs. Brown’s - and found such charming things.  Then to the Gallery.  After lunch we went to say goodbye to the Benson’s taking Mrs. Metcalfe who had lunched with us, and Costantini to see them.  Then, we all went back to the Brown’s to tea - where we ordered some pretty things.  Mrs. Brown has been for years interested in teaching the peasant children and women about Venice, how to do embroidery on linen - and how to copy certain kinds of old lace.  She has built up quite a commerce in this way, and has now over a hundred people working for her.  The work is exquisite, and very reasonable in price - we are off tomorrow, Eliza and I to Florence, Theodore and Jones to Dresden, Costantini to Milan.  This morning went to the Frari, and listened to the music and watched the service.Saturday, April 11.  Hotel Grande Bretagne, Florence.       The morning dawned cold and raining - an early breakfast.  Theodore started immediately after.  We went in half an hour - and until after we crossed the mountains it rained and was very cold, the tops of the mountains covered with snow.  Arrived at 4 o’clock, being half an hour late.  Found Nettie waiting for us at the station, and Lizzie at the hotel, Mary not being well enough to come out.  Nettie dined with us.PAGE 155Easter - April 12.       Awake soon after 4 o’clock this morning - and got up and opened my shutters - and after waiting a little for dawn, began my Easter reading.  It was a quiet hour and half I had, before Amelie came.  Drove early to the Villino to get Lizzie for church, but she had already gone, and Nettie said I would find the little church so packed I would not be able to get in.  So I stayed with Mary who was better, and in the sitting room.  Then Nettie and I drove to San Miniato and sat a long while on the steps of the terrace before the church, looking at the wonderful view of Florence outspread beneath us, the bells of the churches coming to us with mellow sound, and the splendid and exquisite colouring.  Nettie came back with me to luncheon, and we all went to the Villino for tea - I am writing alone in this big salon - Eliza having gone to her room to write letters.  Find many improvements in this house, and everything most comfortable - the sitting room is a bower of lovely flowers, sent in today by the Manager.  Such happy news last night from Milwaukee, about Bessie and the new baby!Monday, April 13.       Eliza and I went for a drive this morning in the Cassino.  Pleasant, but cool.  This afternoon we went to the Villino for tea, and to meet Mrs. Busk and Daisy and Miss Miller.  Just after we got up stairs, while I was talking to Lizzie, some one stood by my side, and said in a familiar voice, “how do you do”, and it was Enrico Cigala - he delights in these surprises, and I was delighted to see Page 156him.  It was nice too, to see Mrs. Busk and Daisy.  Nettie came to dine with us.Tuesday, April 14.       Obliged to go to the dentist’s this morning - where I spent 2 cold hours, waiting for a piece of work that only lasted 10 minutes.  Then drove to the Villino and brought Nettie and Mary home to lunch.  In the afternoon Lizzie, I and the girls drove out to the Villa Lorenzo, occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Matthews, English people - whose father bought the villa 60 years ago.  It was built by Lorenzo di Medici, and is almost untouched - and charming in every way - a fine avenue of cypresses leading to the house - splendid flight of broad stone steps leading to the wide stone terrace running along two sides of the house - and over whose weather-time stained balustrades, the little yellow Banksian rose threw itself in graceful profusion - the garden with its battlemented walls, its flowers, and avenues of great trees of lemons set in enormous pots, was charming.Wednesday, April 15.       Eliza and Amelie both have colds - and are obliged to stay in the house.  In driving this morning met Daisy Busk, and took her for a drive in the Cascine.  Cold, high winds and snow on the mountains - Cigala here this afternoon, and Lizzie and the girls, and Costantini to dinner.PAGE 157Thursday, April 16.       Morning with Lizzie - day bad - and stormy - heavy thunder storm last night.  Went to tea with Mrs. Busk - to meet Mrs. Arthur Busk, and Mrs. Lidderdale - the former being much interested in the Thothmes IV find.  I took the photos of the chariot, and some of the little blue things to show - and they were most interested.  Nettie and Mary to dinner.Friday, April 17.       A cold, wet day - spent the morning at the Uffizzi - the girls, Eliza and I.  Mary spent the rest of the day with us.  Daisy and Miss Miller to dinner - very cold.  Theodore writes of snow and very cold weather in Dresden.Saturday, April 18.       Eliza, Nettie and I went to the Museo Archiologuo this morning, and went through the Egyptian and Etruscan departments.  I was greatly interested - Cigala to lunch - all went with Lizzie to the Albion tea rooms to tea.  Mrs. and Miss Tiffany dined with us, and we had a pleasant evening.  It has been like winter today.  I have never known it so cold in Florence.Sunday, First after Easter.  April 19.       At home this morning - very cold.  This afternoon we went to the Villino to see two friends of Lizzie’s - and stayed very late.PAGE 158Monday, April 20.       This morning, Eliza’s cold being so much better, we went over to the Pitti - taking Amelie with us.  The rooms were crowded.  Eliza and Amelie walked through the passage to the Uffizzi - which Nettie and Mary came with me for a drive in the Cascine - it was cold but charming.  The Fresh greenery - the birds - and the utter solitariness of the place.  After lunch Eliza and I drove up to Settignano to see Berenson but did not find him at home.  Dined with Lizzie and the girls.Tuesday, 21 April.       We had a busy morning at St. Croce - how cold it was - but we went over the whole charming place.  Then to S. Maria Novella, where we did the same thing, and came home well tired, for lunch.  This afternoon Berenson called, and we went to Mrs. Hagermeyers to tea - such a pretty appartment looking out on the gardens of S. Spirito - then a turn in the Cascine, and home.Wednesday, 22 April.       Eliza went off early with the Wendells to Pisa - about 10 o’clock the rain began, and has poured softly ever since.  She got back about 8 o’clock P.M. - saying they had had a good day, and had practically escaped all the rain.  Went early to the Villino - and stayed all day.  Lizzie in her room quite ill, and did not see her.  Cigala appeared soon after luncheon.  Miss Tiffany and Edith Miller came in after dinner.PAGE 159Had a letter from Ethel Bronson announcing her engagement to Prince Giambatista Rospigliosi.  I hear very good things of him.  The letter was dated March 21st and had been following me about.Thursday, 23 April.       This has been a day of constant pour.  Nettie came however at 10, and we did the Bargello faithfully - and San Lorenzo and the old sacristy - then to the flower market where I got a pretty pot of white Azalea, and took it to Lizzie - as it was her birthday - Mary came this afternoon and we went to Bardini’s and home to tea.  Cigala came, and stayed until time to dress for dinner - and we had a merry time.  Mrs. Wendell called.  The sun came out this afternoon but at this hour (10 o’clock) the rain is pouring.Friday, 24 April.       Went out with Nettie this morning shopping - to the Bank - to Cook’s - got the tickets for Paris - Mary here to dine - tea at Lizzie’s - Mrs. Newman’s.Saturday, 25 April.       Intended going to Fiesole this morning and after much debating and mixing plans, and sun disappearing and rain falling we gave it up - Nettie took Eliza to the Academia, and Mary stayed with me - and driving in the afternoon, and a quiet evening of letter writing.PAGE 160Second Sunday after Easter - 26th April.       Nettie, Mary and I drove in the Cascine this morning, where we had all its freshness to ourselves.  Coming home, we stopped to look at the Dog Show.  Eliza and Amelie spent the morning at San Miniato.  This afternoon Eliza and I went to the Villa Landor to see if Mr. Fiske was at home, but found he had gone to Pisa.  It was a lovely drive however, on this most perfect and lovely day - the roses looking over the walls in masses, and filling the air with their perfume.  Stopped at the Badia - all the fashionable world at the Cascine, at the Race Course and Dog Show.  We preferred the Country.Monday, 27 April.       The morning promised so fairly that we decided upon Fiesole.  Mary and I started up about 10 o’clock - and had a charming drive - such delicious air - roses looking over all the walls - and climbing over terraces and trees.  Stopped at the Hotel Aurora - and ordered our lunch under the trees on the terrace.  Then walked about the square and went into the Cathedral, which I had not seen for years - I was entranced with the lovely Mino da Fiesole Madonna in the Salutati chapel - indeed we were delighted with every thing - the rather bare, cold dark church - and the delicious little old woman who showed us about - and who with tears in her eyes, almost clasped me in her arms when we came away.  Then we sat down under the big trees in the square, on the cold stone benches - and bought straw things of the old man who had a booth near us - until Nettie and Eliza arrived by train, and we had our PAGE 161not very good lunch - but a most merry one.  After that we went to the Museo, and then climbed the hill to the lovely height above the Monastery, and wandered about, and assisted at the service in the little, cold, dark church.  Nettie drove home with me, and we went to the Villino for tea - and Cigala came and Miss Miller spent the evening with us - and so we finished a nice, nice day.Tuesday, 28 April.       A busy shopping morning with Mary, then to the Villino with Cigala - and stayed until 3 o’clock - such pleasant hours.  Then we drove to the Castle Costello Bardini - away above and beyond Bellosguarda - a most captivating place - we did so enjoy the drive and ourselves!  Lizzie and the girls came to dine.Wednesday, 29 April.       We all went shopping - crowding 4 of us into the Victoria.  Cigala came to lunch - Eliza and I went to tea with David Costantini.  We went to dine at the Villino - Cigala there.  Harry Burton came in afterwards - and then a great surprise!  We were asked to go into the drawing room, and there found a somewhat improvised theatre - and Cigala and Nettie produced a play written by Cigala - a most funny farce - well written and well played.  How we laughed - and how good it was in them to take so much pains to amuse us - but, I was rather sad - and felt nearer tears than laughter - and I hated to come away and leave them all, for tomorrow we go direct to Paris.PAGE 162Friday, 1st May       We arrived last night almost two hours late.  The Royal train bearing the King of England to Paris, had preceded us some hours, and seemed to have disturbed the service of the road, so that in spite of our name, we were not express.  We left Florence at 5:30 yesterday - having had a busy day - with Lizzie and the girls to lunch, and a farewell visit from Cigala afterwards - and we sat wearily waiting for the time to go.  Nettie and Mary went to the train with us.  I had ordered a little lunch basket from Doni’s and we found it very good.  We had 2 small communicating compartments - and by 9 o’clock I was safe and comfortable in my really nice little bed - and had a very good night.  I wakened about 7 o’clock and drew up my blinds, and then got back to bed, and lay watching the rain coming down, and the mists rolling up on the hills and mountains - we dressed and had breakfast before we came to the great tunnel, which we were just one half hour passing.  A very charming ride during the morning - and while in the mountains, which were everywhere covered with snow.  We found Paris celebrating the King’s presence - streets and buildings beautifully illuminated and decorated.  We were not allowed to drive through certain streets near the Theatre Francais, where the King was going - and we drove through squares lined with mounted dragoons, and when we reached the Rue de la Paix, it was absolutely jammed with moving crowds of people looking at the illuminations.  We found our rooms ready for us - the bright fire in the sitting room, the cheerful dining room with its table ready, and Emil with his napkin over his arm, ready to welcome us.  We have forPAGE 163years occupied these rooms, and they seem quite homelike.Saturday, 2d May.       Going out was impossible this morning - as all the shops were closed - and the streets packed with people.  At 12 o’clock the street was cleared by the dragoons, and the enormous crowds packed upon the sidewalks, where they were held by a row of dragoons on each side.  Finally came a mass of glittering, clattering cuirasseurs galloping down the street, then the open carriage of the King, with President Loubet by his side.  They flashed by so quickly.  I only saw a smiling pale heavy face under the drooping white plume, and the constant recognition of the hearty welcome given.  The same thing was repeated in the evening, but with greater crowds and more excitement as at midnight the King again drove through the street on his way from the Opera.  It was after one o’clock before we got to bed.  In the afternoon Eliza and I drove out to the Bois, and walked about - cold, but springlike.3d Sunday after Easter. 3d May.       A showery day - crowds still in the street - and until midnight - though it was very wet, and no illuminations.  Eliza and I drove to the Bois in the afternoon, and walked about under the trees.  Cold and wet.Monday, 4 May.       Busy shopping and giving orders - rain and cold.PAGE 164Tuesday - 5th May.       Theodore and Jones arrived this afternoon - I took Amelie and went to the Gare du Nord to meet them - bringing Theodore home at once - and leaving Amelie to help Jones with the luggage.  They both look pale, having had bad colds in Germany.  Theodore talked for hours to me about all poor Eleanor’s affairs.Saturday, 9th May.       We have been busy four days with shopping - always the wet, cold weather - with alternate sunshine.  On one day we had 3 successive hail storms - as severe as I ever saw.  Enormous damage has been done to fruit and crops.  Received a letter today from McWilliams the Gardener - enclosing some charming sprays of heath, now flowering in the rock garden.  His reports good - though there seems to have been wholesale destruction of the privet and vines about Newport.4th Sunday after Easter.       A morning at the Louvre.  Theodore and I in the afternoon drove up to see Mrs. Austen - found her at home, and had tea with her.  Afterwards drove in the Bois - very wet - everything covered with mud.Monday, 11-th May.       Very busy all day - Austins to dine.PAGE 165Tuesday, 12 May.       At the Louvre all the morning among the Egyptian things.  Driving and shopping all the afternoon - rain most of the time.Saturday evening - 16 May.       Ready for a start to London tomorrow and glad to leave Paris and its vanities - weather still abominable - Costantini arrived yesterday - he, Theodore, and Eliza are playing bridge - and I am turning off the last little things in the way of getting packed.Sunday evening - 17th May.London, Hotel Cecil.       We had a bad crossing today though I knew but little of it, as I slept all the way - so did Theodore.  Amelie very sick, and Eliza miserable.  We went on deck in order to land and it was a sickening sight - we were obliged to come to this hotel - as we could not get in at the Claridge or Coburg.  This looks like a Chicago Railway hotel, though we have charming rooms in the corner of the house overlooking the river - a large cheerful sitting room and good bedrooms - they are on the 3d floor, from the Strand entrance, and the 5th from embankment, and as we have all our meals in the sitting room and when we go out the lift takes us down to the embankment entrance, we see little of the rest of the house and its occupants.PAGE 166Monday, 18th May.       Eliza and I shopping this morning - to the National Gallery this afternoon - Theodore dining with Mr. Arbuthnol at the Nat. Liberal Club.Wednesday, 20th May.       Two busy days of sightseeing - yesterday I went to the Tulip Show at Drill Hall, Buckingham Gate and saw wonderful things.  Mr. Farrar Fielding and Rathbone called.  This evening Theodore is dining with the latter.Thursday, 21st May.       This morning we went to an interesting loan of Greek things at the Burlington Fine Art Club - afterwards Theodore and I went to Bucklands Hotel on Brook Street near Claridges, to look at the rooms, and were delighted with them - and will go there next year.  A visit today from Miss Farrer - went with Fielding to the Wallace collection calling for him at his home.  Theodore went in and found Lord Denbigh there and stayed to talk awhile.  Lady Denbigh came out to the carriage to see me, and got in and paid us a visit.  After seeing the wonderful and beautiful collection Fielding insisted on our going back and having tea with him.  Mr. Rathbone came to dine with us, and we all went to the play of “In Dakomy” given by a Company of Negro actors from America, and which has taken immensely here.  It was very funny and well done, and I don’t know when I have laughed so much.PAGE 167Friday, 22d May.       Mrs. and Miss Arbuthnol, some friends of Theodore, made in Dresden, came to lunch with us - and afterwards I drove Eliza to Buckingham Palace to see the King and Queen who were going to open the new bridge at Kew.  Many people had collected, but by driving down towards Constitution Hill we got beyond the crowd, and sent the carriage to wait for us at the end of the drive.  We had a very good view of them as they passed with their escort - then we drove in the park and came home in time to dress for an early dinner to which Fielding came, and we all went to hear “The Light that Failed”, Kipling’s story, dramatized by Miss Fletcher, the daughter of Mrs. Benson of Venice - I never cared for the story - but the play was well done by Forbes-Robertson and his company.  I doubt though the influence of such highly emotional plays.  I believe it to be demoralizing.  But I rejoice that Miss Fletcher has had such a success for it has been running a long time with good houses.Saturday, 23d May.       Mr. Rathbone came about 12, having asked us to to out to Ranalagh Gardens to lunch.  Theodore took Eliza in a hansom, and Mr. Rathbone went with me in the victoria.  We stopped on the way to see the gardens of Chelsea Hospital.  I had never before seen them, and they were enchanting - three quarters of an hour brought us to Ranalagh where Mrs. Rathbone and her son were waiting for us.  We had lunch and then walked into the grounds - there was to be a polo match - a ladies’ driving match - and a balloon ascension - so there was enough entertainment PAGE 168for the afternoon.  We had tea under the trees, and then walked in the old gardens, which were lovely.  There are days when no one is there comparatively - when it would be captivating to spend a day there but as this was our only free day, we had to take this.  Dined with Sir William Farrer - Col. and Mrs. Barker I met again.  Old Sir William is the most wonderful old man - very lame now, goes on two sticks - but just as interested, as charming and as wide awake as ever, in spite of his 80 odd years.  Mrs. Barker told me that the evening before, she and Minnie Farrer were smothering their yawns, feeling used up for the day, when Sir William was starting out for a lecture on “dictionaries”, coming home at 10 o’clock declaring he had had a delightful evening.Sunday after Ascension.   24th May.       Theodore took Eliza down to St. Paul’s this morning, and I started with great interest to the Christian Science Church, but found to my great disappointment that I had the wrong direction - so I took a drive in the park.  In the afternoon we went to the Rathbones for tea met some pleasant people, and had a nice visit.Monday, 25th May.       To the National Gallery this morning and spent the time with the English School of Painting - a lovely morning it was.  I stayed at home in the afternoon.  Lord and Lady Denbigh called, and made a pleasant visit.  He to excuse himself for not being present at Fielding’s dinner this evening, to which we are going.  He is now in waiting onPAGE 169the King, and had been commanded to accompany him to the Opera this evening.  After they went, Mr. Rathbone came and had tea with us.  We found Basil Fielding at his brothers, Lady Denbigh, and Lady and Mr. Cary-Elwes - a pleasant evening.  Mr. Cary-Elwes sang for us - we heard him a few evenings ago, when he made his debut before a London audience in St. James’s Hall.Tuesday evening, 26th May.       This has been a busy day - Eliza and I went at 9:30 to the Temple Garden Show.  I had written to Mr. Upton, who now manages the Guildford Hardy Plant Nursery, where we have been buying for years, and who I knew was going to exhibit there, that I wanted to see the show, as it would be my only chance as I was leaving tomorrow, and as it only opened that day at one, and the crowds are always so great that little can be seen, could he tell me if I could gain an entrance in the morning.  He answered if I would be at the Embankment Gate at 9:30, he would be able he thought to get me in.  So Eliza and I boldly entered, passed the policemen, and demanded Mr. Upton - it worked beautifully, and was very satisfactory - such flowers!  Fielding came to tea - and now at 10:30 Basil, now Monsignor Basil Fielding, with what Fielding calls his “purple stomach” is talking with Theodore most earnestly and interestingly about his work in the slums at Manchester.Tuesday evening.   June 2.       Holland House.  Arrived this morning - sailing on the KronPAGE 170Prinz from Southampton - the morning of the 27th May - Mrs. Davis joined us.  Gaspard Farrar sailed with us, going straight on to Canada for some fishing - we go to Newport tomorrow.1